
A potion designed to make Morty attractive to one girl goes viral and infects all of Earth, so Rick has to clean up the mess by creating another mess.

Morty Smith is very interested in Jessica, but lacks the opportunity to ever talk to her as he's either too shy or his attempts are shut down by Brad whenever he tries. With the annual Flu Season Dance coming up, Morty talks to Jerry about his issue. Jerry compares Morty's fondness for Jessica to his own fondness for Beth when he was a teenager. Rick Sanchez overhears Jerry's story and reminds him that said fondness resulted in Jerry getting Beth pregnant at 17. Rick proceeds to warn Morty not to go to Jerry for romantic advice because, "his marriage is hanging on by a thread". An insulted Jerry remarks that there isn't a problem with his marriage. Unconvinced, Rick tells Jerry that he can believe what he wants but it's pretty obvious that Beth is looking for an excuse to leave him. Morty becomes upset and asks Rick not to talk about his parents in that fashion. In response, Rick tells Morty that what people interpret as, "love" is just a chemical that causes animals to breed and once that has happened, any true passion fades away. After Rick leaves, a depressed Morty goes upstairs to prepare for the dance and a nervous Jerry goes to check on Beth. Thinking about what Rick told him, Morty approaches Rick and requests a potion that can make Jessica like him. After a brief argument, Rick calls Morty a, "thorn in his ass" and gives Morty a serum based off the genetic makeup of voles, a rodent that pair bonds with its mate for life. Before leaving, Morty asks if there's anything that could go wrong with the serum and Rick answers no. Once Morty has left, however, Rick quickly adds, "unless she has the flu", but shrugs it off.

At the dance, Morty uses the serum on Jessica, and, save for her dilated pupils, it seems to be a success. When Brad sees Jessica holding Morty, he becomes angry and tries to wrestle him away from her. Things only get worse when Jessica begins to sneeze. The serum, which has piggy-backed onto the flu virus and has caused the virus to replicate in seconds, is seen to go airborne, infects Brad with the serum. Brad quickly apologizes to Morty but begins to make sexual advances on Morty which leads to another scuffle between Jessica and Brad. Eventually Principal Vagina leads Brad away, while Brad sneezes causing the serum laced flu virus to enter the fruit punch and air vents. Soon everyone at the dance is infected with the flu and subsequently the serum. Morty prays that everything go according to plan, when Jessica starts aggressively telling Morty to have sex with her on the spot, in front of the entire school. Morty is unsurprisingly mortified and Jessica's friend tells her to control herself, before she begins to make advances on Morty as well. Morty slowly backs up and notices that everyone in the room now has dilated pupils and they're all looking at him lustfully. Realizing what has happened with dread, Morty feebly whimpers, "Oh, crap!". The students and faculty swarm around Morty, with each of them violently competing to have Morty for themselves. Morty eventually manages to get away from everyone and makes a break for the exit where Rick is waiting for him. Rick tells Morty that he realized that he messed up and explains how this all happened. Terrified, Morty asks Rick what they're going to do and Rick tells him that he's already whipped up an antidote using praying mantis DNA as the base, claiming that they're the, "opposite of voles" due to their nature to only mate once before the female devours the male.  

Rick releases his antidote along with a second, more powerful airborne virus. Upon releasing the new airborne serum, Rick tells Morty that the serum doesn't affect anyone related to Morty by blood so luckily it means none of his family will want to have sex with him. For a moment, the antidote appears to have been successful, until everybody starts growing mantis-like features and other appendages. Now not only do they still wish to copulate with Morty but also have the urge to behead and eat him afterward. This Mantis-love virus soon infects the entire Earth population, all of which not only wish to mate with Morty but consume him afterwards.

Meanwhile, Jerry approaches Beth and asks her if she still loves him. Beth tells Jerry that loving him is the equivalent of building a homeless shelter, work that nobody wants to do but people who care will do so anyway. She then is called in to work late to help out with some horses after an incident at the racetrack and Jerry begins to suspect she may be having an affair. Despite Summer Smith (C-137)'s warnings, Jerry decides to stop by St. Equis Hospital where his wife works. On the way, he encounters a massive roadblock on the highway and is confronted by several mutated victims. Finding a shotgun in an abandoned police car, Jerry arms himself and shoots his way through the horde. After a successful surgery, Beth's coworker Davin makes a move before being infected by the Mantis-love virus. Just then, Jerry, in tattered clothes, busts in with a crowbar and beats him to death. Meanwhile, Rick and Morty travel to a secluded area in the desert. While Rick tries to concoct a third serum to undo all of his previous work Morty is watching the news and is horrified to find that the virus has spread across the entire planet. Rick then claims that he has created the solution by taking the DNA from several sources, including koala, rattlesnake, chimpanzee, cactus, golden retriever, shark, and dinosaur. Morty is confused by Rick's concoction and asks how it would put people back to normal, but only gets chastised by Rick for questioning him. As they fly over the town, Rick tries to build up hype so he can rub his supposed success in Morty's face, until Morty finally just grows tired of Rick's arrogance and releases the third airborne virus himself. At first the serum seems to have worked, as some people are returned to normal, but just as quickly, people begin turning into disfigured, humanoid blobs that Rick dubs "Cronenbergs." Rick then sarcastically says, "You're welcome." to Morty, claiming that he made him the, "mayor of, 'I told you so town'". The world is soon overrun with these disfigured monsters, and Jerry and Beth fight their way through them to survive, eventually reuniting with Summer.

As dawn breaks, Rick and Morty sit upon a rooftop overlooking the chaos around them. Rick tries to be light-hearted and jokingly points out that no one wants to have sex with Morty any more so they must be going in the right direction. Morty, on the other hand, is still absolutely horrified by the fact that the world was in ruin and asks Rick how he could have been so irresponsible. Not willing to take the blame, Rick reminds Morty that he was the one who asked for the serum to begin with, and claimed that Morty was a total creep. Morty accepts his responsibility for the disaster but he quickly reminds Rick that he was the one who botched the original serum, mixed a bunch of random genes together, hoped for the best and ended up turning the entire world population into Cronenbergs. 

Furthermore, Morty declares that Rick had to figure out a way to fix everything. At wits end for what to do, Rick then ultimately decides to use his final emergency solution. The scene cuts to Rick and Morty's garage, with Morty congratulating Rick on saving the world from the Cronenbergs. Rick asks Morty for his screwdriver, and gladly begins to finish his invention from earlier. Just as Rick twists the screw the third time, the device violently explodes, instantly (and messily) killing Rick and Morty. The Rick and Morty from the rooftop scene then step out from a portal, and Morty panics at the sight of incredibly bloody garage with the corpses of him and his grandfather lying limp and burnt on ground; until Rick calms him down by telling Morty that there are an infinite number of realities and in a few of them he managed to save the world from the viruses. Rick further explains the he just had to find one of those realities in which they died soon afterwards so that they could come in and take their place.
<nowiki> </nowiki>A still horrified Morty asks Rick what was going to happen to the world they left behind only for Rick to tell him there's nothing they can do, so they shouldn't think about it. Rick further remarks that Morty should be glad that he messed as much as he did because if he hadn't, they would have been the versions of themselves that died in an explosion. The episode ends with Rick and Morty, burying their dead bodies in the backyard. Upon finishing, Morty, with a Wikipedia:Thousand-yard stare, returns into the house in a daze, looks around at his new home and sits on the couch, clearly shell-shocked by all that has happened.

After the credits, the remainder of the C-137 Smith family is shown living out of a van fitted with armor and survival equipment and roasting a dead Cronenburg over a fire. Summer (C-137) creates her own TV shows standing in a cardboard box while her parents, Jerry (C-137) and Beth (C-137), admit they don't miss Rick and Morty at all and despite the world falling apart, they have actually found happiness. Meanwhile, Cronenberg Rick and Cronenberg Morty transport from a reality they call Cronenberg World in which Cronenberg Rick accidentally turned everyone into normal human beings.

