
Rick is skeptical of Summer's new job at a shop run by the devil. Jerry and Morty argue about Pluto's status as a planet and end up traveling there.


The Smith family are eating breakfast. Rick creates a small robot purely to pass the butter on the table when Morty comes into the kitchen to ask Rick to help him on his science project. Jerry jumps at the opportunity to work on a project with Morty due to his low self-confidence about his intelligence. Morty decides to agree. Summer asks for a ride to her job, which is defaulted to Rick since Jerry is 'busy'.

Rick gives Summer a ride to her job, which is helping out an eccentric old man run a 'vintage thrift store' called Needful Things. The shop is run by Mr. Needful, and has just opened recently. Before Rick and Summer arrive, Mr. Goldenfold arrives by accident (thinking the shop was a Jamba Juice). Mr. Needful knows his name without introduction and gives him an M Shave's Aftershave to help capture female attention. The aftershave is free, but Mr. Needful states "Nobody ever pays here...not with money".

Summer and Rick arrive into the shop, and Rick is immediately suspicious of Mr. Needful, asking whether he is the devil. This accusation startles Mr. Needful who quickly tries to give Rick a microscope, which Rick reluctantly takes as Summer pushes him out the door. Meanwhile, Jerry and Morty begin to work on a solar system model for his science project. Jerry states that Pluto is a planet and Morty attempts to correct him. However, Jerry refuses to say that Pluto is not a planet.

Morty visits Rick in his garage, where Rick scans the microscope and finds that using it would have significantly lowered his IQ. Jerry barges in assuming Morty is asking Rick about whether Pluto is a planet or not. Jerry vehemently argues that if it was once a planet, it could be a planet again. Mr. Goldenfold returns to Needful Things, saying that the aftershave worked but made him impotent. After Rick arrives and administers a cure into Goldenfold, he reveals that he has invented a device to identify the negative effects of the cursed items. Rick goes around the store, scanning all the items and revealing their curses which scares away the customer base. Mr. Needful and Rick briefly fight before Summer pushes Rick out the door.

Jerry attempts to call NASA to argue about Pluto's planetary status. However, the two are quickly abducted by an alien ship and taken to Pluto, where they meet King Flippynips, the ruler of Pluto. The king is overjoyed that Jerry believes Pluto is a planet, and Jerry becomes a spokesperson to the population, assuring them that they are still a planet. The large cheering crowd quickly inflates Jerry's ego.

Needful Things begins to sell a variety of items, but Summer and Mr. Needful discover it's because Rick has opened another shop across the street called Curse Purge Plus!. The shop removes the curses for a fee, and is an instant hit. This causes a strain on Mr. Needful's confidence and he attempts to kill himself, but is saved by Summer. Summer arrives into Rick's shop to concede defeat, which results in Rick getting bored and burning the shop to the ground.

Jerry becomes famous to the Pluto population, appearing in various events to advocate that Pluto is a planet. Morty meets Scroopy Noopers, a Plutonian scientist who reveals that major corporations are mining plutonium from Pluto's core, thus making the planet shrink and slowly die. Jerry's opinions fall into line with these corporations, who are desperate to keep the public uninformed about the problems. Morty's attempts to persuade his father to tell the populace the truth falls on deaf ears. It's only when King Flippynips captures Scroopy Noopers and reveals he's his son does Jerry work the courage to tell the population of Pluto their problems.

Mr. Needful opens a new business in the technology realm, opening n33dful.com to ravenous reviews. As he congratulates the workforce, he orders security on them and quickly fires Summer who feels betrayed. She reaches out to Rick who offers an idea. The two lift weights, take steroids and become incredibly muscular and ambush Mr. Needful at a tech talk before celebrating together.

In the after credits sequence, the muscular Rick and Summer beat up various mean-spirited people.

