
Aliens send Rick, Morty and Jerry into an alternate reality, and Rick tries to get them out as oblivious Jerry pitches a marketing slogan for apples.


The episode opens with Rick Sanchez dissecting a large rat in the garage complaining about the sloppy workmanship. Morty Smith stops in to comment on the beautiful day before a robotic Beth Smith (C-137) gets into a car and leaves for work. Rick is shown acting suspicious of the day's events, as well as Morty. Morty leaves for school and is called up to the front of the "math class" by Mr. Goldenfold, who asks him to teach the class, despite Morty's seemingly incorrect answer to a math question. A classmate asks Morty to share the recipe for concentrated dark matter, and a reluctant Morty is nearly enticed by Jessica into doing so before Rick bursts in and pulls Morty away.

Rick tells Morty to get naked as they scramble into some locker room showers. Rick explains that they are actually trapped in a simulation of real-life by a race of 'intergalactic scammers' called Zigerions. Rick tells Morty that they'll be safe if they're naked, as the alien race is immensely uncomfortable with the sight of nudity.

Meanwhile, Jerry Smith (C-137) has been accidentally been abducted into the simulation too, and calmly goes about the day's events without noticing the numerous glitches, as his simulation is made to run on very low capacity. Jerry drives to work and gives a pitch for a marketing slogan for apples ('Hungry for Apples?'), which the board members approve. Jerry is filled with unbound confidence and promptly leaves to make love to the simulated Beth.

Rick and Morty plan an impromptu rap concert, and Rick orders the crowd to perform a wide variety of actions in order to saturate the RAM and freeze the CPU, thus, the simulation. The duo manages to escape from the simulation, sneak into the ship, steal some Crystallized Core Processing Units and proceed to an escape pod. As they fly back to Earth and return to the garage, Rick's enters the passcode to a hidden safe, which refuses to open. The garage then melts away, proving that they are still trapped in the simulation.

Prince Nebulon appears and taunts Rick for thinking he escaped, revealing that the Zigerions have always had the recipe for concentrated dark matter, but Rick pulls Morty's pants down to cause a diversion, leading to a chase throughout the ship. Back in the simulation, Jerry returns to work in order to confess his slogan is a rip-off of 'Got Milk?', but his boss is caught in an infinite loop of snapping his fingers and saying "Yes!". In the span of a minute Jerry is fired, rehired, promoted, and then nominated for an 'Appley Award' (a fictional award that Jerry made up just seconds earlier). Jerry wins the award, and gives a heartfelt speech about how that day was the best day of his life, before the simulation crashes.

Rick and Morty reunite with Jerry as they attempt to find a real escape pod to use. They climb into one but are promptly pursued by Zigerion ships, and Rick decides to put together some concentrated dark matter to escape. Morty asks for the recipe, and Rick orders Morty to mix 2 parts cesium, 1 part plutonic quartz, and an entire (12oz/355mL) bottled water to create the concentrated dark matter. But then, Morty freezes with he and the ship fading away, proving that it was just Rick and Jerry in the simulation all along. Prince Nebulon reappears victorious and allows them to leave.

While throwing a victory celebration, the Zigerions mix the listed components to make the dark matter, but their ship promptly explodes, proving that Rick knew he was in a simulation since at least the time he was tricked into entering the safe combination. Rick sings the saxophone part to Baker Street by Gerry Rafferty as their shuttle flies away.

In a post-credits sequence, Jerry gives the 'Hungry for Apples?' pitch at an actual board meeting and is fired on the spot. A drunken Rick approaches the real Morty in bed, pulling a knife on him and yelling at him, calling him a "little bitch" repeatedly, to prove he's not a simulation before passing out asleep.

