
The family battles a parasite that implants fake memories into their heads, which leads them to wonder if any of them are real.

The Smith Family is having breakfast with Jerry Smith's older brother, Uncle Steve, when Jerry receives an email about purchased plane tickets. 
Uncle Steve then admits that he bought them as a thank you to the family for letting him stay for the past year. When Rick comes into the room, he doesn't know who Uncle Steve is, and the family rebuffs him, claiming that Uncle Steve has stayed with them for the past year. Rick then pulls out a laser pistol and shoots Uncle Steve, who turns out to be a monster. While the Smith family gasp in shock at the realization that Uncle Steve wasn't real, Rick informs them that he was a parasite, an alien species that survive and multiply by implanting fake memories into people's head so they can conquer planets. He tells them to be aware of "wacky, zany characters that suddenly appear" and is encouraged by a newly introduced zany character, Mr. Poopybutthole.

In the living room, Rick makes a sign saying that there should only be 6 people in the house: Rick, Morty, Jerry, Beth, Mr. Poopybutthole, and Summer. Saying that they can't take chances of letting parasites out of the house, he activates blast shields that keep people from coming in or out of the house, much to the chagrin of the rest of the family. Mr. Poopybutthole encourages the family to remember the time the family got stuck in an elevator and were freed by "Cousin Nicky". The memory flashback causes a parasite to multiply and Cousin Nicky is shown in the room. After looking at the sign, Rick shoots Cousin Nicky in the shoulder, which turns him into a dead parasite. After another memory flashback, where a Nazi as well as a butler named Mr. Beauregard appear. As more and more memory flashbacks occur, more and more parasite characters appear (such as Frankenstein's Monster, a man named Sleepy Gary who is Beth's husband, food themed warriors, etc.). Rick starts to become irritated at the surplus of parasites, and insults them all while they attempt to persuade Rick to disable the blast shields. After being goaded into having a flashback of having a barbecue with more characters, he is pushed over the edge and the house is filled. As arguing ensues, Jerry has suspicions that he is a parasite and confides in Sleepy Gary, who he truly believes is Beth's husband. Comforting him, Sleeping Gary implants a memory of he and Jerry having an affair while on a vacation, making the latter believe that they are in love.

As he insults more and more parasites, the aliens start to turn suspicion onto Rick, manipulating the false memories in the Smiths to turn them against him. The Smiths constantly attempt to persuade Rick into freeing everyone from the household even after Reverse Giraffe speaks. After he refuses to do so, the parasites soon beat up Rick and steal the watch that controls the blast shield. After Rick insults the Smith Family (mostly Morty) for not trusting him, Morty takes Rick's gun. Unable to kill Rick in front of a zany character named Pencilvester, Baby Wizard, Duck With Muscles and Morty take him out to the garage. After telling Rick that he'll remember him as a friend and unsatisfied, Rick retorts that he'll remember Morty as a, "whiny bitch" citing that a minority of his memories of Morty were pleasant and the majority were just pure annoyance. However, after listening to Ricks statement about good and bad memories, Morty has an epiphany and shoots Baby Wizard and Duck With Muscles. He explains to Rick that he found the tell-tale sign; the parasites were only capable of creating pleasant memories. so he was able to know that Rick was real by all the terrible memories he had of him. Realizing Morty's theory was correct, Rick unlocks his armory and they both heavily arm themselves.

Coming back into the house, Rick and Morty fire warning shots into the air and explain that they need to kill everyone that can only be remembered fondly. They begin by questioning Mrs. Refrigerator, who attempts to prove that she was in an unpleasant memory by passing off a roller-coaster ride as screaming torment. Beth tells Mrs. Refrigerator that roller-coasters are more thrilling than unpleasant and reminds her that she had be a perfect companion to her for her entire life. Mrs. Refrigerator goes into a panic, tries to claw her way through the blast shields and is shortly killed and exposed as a memory parasite. Rick questions Summer who is annoyed at the accusation being made against her. Morty then validates Summer's existence as he recalls her kicking him in the groin when she believed him of going into her room, despite Morty protesting his innocence while cringing on the ground. After being armed, Summer joins the two in questioning Beth. Summer then remembers when she asked her drunk mother to take her to school for picture day, and was given a black eye when Beth accidentally hits her with a wine bottle. Beth kills a bear like parasite (who had compatible kidneys with her) and the Smiths kill the remaining parasites. As they kill parasites, Summer confirms Morty is real by remembering accidentally walking in on him masturbating in the kitchen. Beth kills Sleepy Gary, sending Jerry into a depression, asking Beth to kill him so they can be together in death. To her chagrin, Beth remembers a memory when Jerry was being chased by a feral homeless man with a broken bottle and locks himself inside the car, leaving Beth to fend for herself. 

Back downstairs, Rick comes across Pencilvester and has such fond "memories" of him, that he can't bring himself to kill him. Rick then asks Morty to kill Pencilvester. After killing Mr. Beauregard, Rick jokes that ''he'' did the butler, though Ghost in a Jar is the only one who gets it. Rick thanks Ghost in a Jar before shooting him as well, and eventually all the parasites are destroyed.

The family and Mr. Poopybutthole then sit down for dinner. Beth, being suspicious of the lack of bad memories of Mr. Poopybutthole, pulls out a ray gun and blasts him. However, it turns out that Mr. Poopybutthole is actually real, as instead of reverting into a parasite, he is blasted into a wall and begins bleeding out from the wound in his torso. The family calls an ambulance, while Beth runs into the kitchen. Panicked, she pours a glass of wine with very shaky hands and downs it with eyes almost blinded with tears.

The post-credits scene reveals that Mr. Poopybutthole is alive and recovering in physical therapy. The nurse informs the family that Mr. Poopybutthole does not wish to see them right now, and that he is "sorry you didn't have bad memories of him". As Jerry comforts Beth, Rick does one of his weird catchphrases.

