
After another exhausting adventure, Rick and Morty decide they need a vacation. But things go a little haywire when they try a special detox machine.


The episode begins at school, where Morty hears that Jessica broke up with Brad, and attempts to ask her out. The moment is interrupted by Rick, who asks Morty to go with him on what he promises to be a quick twenty-minute adventure for a crystal. Said adventure goes on for six days and, despite being heroes and Rick getting the crystal, both Morty ''and'' Rick finally break down. Over-stressed from non-stop adventures, Rick finally decides it's time for a vacation.

While relaxing at an alien spa, they decide to try out a machine that supposedly removes all the toxicity of its users. Upon use, Rick and Morty find themselves in a toxic wasteland full of disgusting creatures, at first believing the machine blew up the rest of the spa, only for Rick to discover that they aren't the real Rick and Morty: they are ''literally'' the toxicity of themselves, Toxic Rick as the rude, lying, alcoholic, genius asshole part of himself and Toxic Morty being the nervous, pathetic, and self-loathing part of himself. While the real Rick and Morty leave the spa refreshed after their vacation–Rick also has a normal skin color instead of his ''gray-alcoholic'' skin color–Toxic Rick begins plotting a way to get out.

Morty, freed from all his insecurities, suddenly becomes popular and confident in school, helping the self-esteem of almost all of the students and impressing Mr. Goldenfold by openly insulting him in class. He even works up the courage to ask Jessica out, which she happily accepts. However, Rick reveals to Morty he started receiving strange signals on his phone that he traced back to the spa and upon further investigation discovered what actually happened to their removed toxicity. Though Morty tells him to ignore it, Rick feels obligated to re-merge with his toxicity as he removed the part of himself that would not care, thus he does care that they accidentally created life.

Morty's date with Jessica does not go well, as Jessica is thrown off by Morty's complete openness and seeming inability to stop talking. Morty is fine with it and convinces another girl named Stacy to come home with him. Upon arriving, he learns Rick purchased the machine from the spa and in cooperation with Toxic Rick and Toxic Morty rigged it so they could re-merge with their toxic selves. Morty refuses, claiming that Toxic Rick could be lying, so Rick tries to force him into the machine. However, just as the machine is activated, Morty says an agreed upon "safe word" (Sea Cucumber) and Stacy pulls the two out and takes their place, teleporting her into the tank and replacing her with Toxic Rick and Toxic Morty, who revel in having tricked their real selves until they realize they are all in the same room.

Toxic Rick at first continues to try to get Rick into the toxic tank, but eventually resolves to make the whole world toxic instead, using a Moon Tower to transmit the toxicity around the planet. At first Rick refuses to stop them, saying it's not his place to decide which dimensions are saved or destroyed, but upon getting slapped by Morty, he realizes that the detox machine removes toxicity in a user based on that person's definition of toxicity. Toxic Rick manages to turn the world toxic, driving it to total depravity and violence, just as Rick and Morty arrive. Rick realized that his normal self considered his irrational attachments to people toxic, thus he knows Toxic Rick cares too much about Morty to allow him to die: with this knowledge, he shoots Toxic Morty with a nanobotic virus that will destroy him in twenty minutes, cutting that time in half with each progressive shot until an agonized Toxic Rick finally agrees to re-merge with him. Restored to his former self, Rick turns off the toxicity beam and restores the world, but Morty flies away with a jetpack to avoid having to re-merge with his toxic self. Rick is left shocked that he didn't expect this.

Three weeks later, Morty has become a ''Wolf of Wall Street''-esque salesman in New York and living an altogether healthy lifestyle with his attractive girlfriend Jacqueline. While at his apartment he receives a call from Jessica begging him to come back, which he knows is part of Rick's plan to trace his location. However, he does not manage to hang up in time, and Rick and Jessica track him down. Using a group of drones to tie Morty down, Rick forcibly re-inserts the boy's toxicity, turning him back into his miserable self. While Rick and Jessica argue over who actually wanted regular Morty back, Morty amicably breaks up with Jacqueline. He offers her the apartment and the drones. However, Rick refuses to give up the latter because he loves their ability to form a Voltron-like combination.

Mirroring the opening scene, Morty listens to Jessica talking about going out with Brad again, which she insists was not a date but her friends claim is proof they are back together. Just as Rick drags Morty into another adventure, Jessica stops him and lets him know she's glad to have him back.

In the after-credits scene, a tour visits the Moon Tower and discovers the tank. Upon turning it on, Stacy is teleported back into the real world, screaming the safe word from earlier in the episode.

