
The president needs help from Rick and Morty, prompting a bit of a confrontation. Beth begins to suspect that she may be a clone.

When an unknown monster attacks a janitor in the tunnels under the White House, the President requests Rick and Morty's help to deal with the threat. Upon arriving at the White House (via Portal Gun), they agree to do so, though the President once again denies Morty's request for a selfie. After shooting and scaring off the (small) alien creature, Rick and Morty quickly get bored and return home to play more Minecraft. Unfortunately, the Secret Service has been watching them the entire time, and inform the President that Rick and Morty "just blew off America."

Seeing Rick and Morty at their home via satellite (complete with thermal imaging), an unhappy President calls them on their progress regarding the monster. Rick and Morty lie about their progress, but the President calls their bluff, and an argument erupts over the two's constant law breaking despite saving the world several times. The two cut ties with the President, and in private, he is visibly heartbroken.

Meanwhile, Summer and Beth are shopping, with Beth giving her daughter very good advice on her choices. Summer reacts positively to her mother's new behavior, saying that she couldn't stand her old negative behavior before, as if she's an almost different person. Beth, however, reacts badly to it.

When a miniature civilization is discovered in the Amazon rainforest, Rick and Morty travel to Brazil to investigate. At the same time, however, the U.S. Government arrives claiming jurisdiction. When Rick and Morty protest, the President has them arrested and shrinks down to negotiate with the civilization. Once he leaves, Rick and Morty break free of their restraints (made of the fake element "Sanchezium") and quickly escape from being surrounded by pirates, one of the few things Rick fears.

Back at home, Beth continues to question her status as a clone, and calls Rick to confirm it. Though Rick assures her she is not a clone and would kill her clone self should it become aware of the fact, it only fuels her growing paranoia.

Upon arriving at the Mega Gargantuan civilization, the President is disappointed to learn that Rick and Morty have already negotiated a peace treaty with their Presidentress. Once back to his normal size, the President declares war on Rick and Morty, growing even more upset after learning that they had also negotiated a permanent ceasefire between Israel and Palestine and gave him all the credit.

Following the ensuing press conference, The President asks for Rick and Morty's whereabouts, only to discover they have both been patiently waiting inside the Oval Office. Having fulfilled the President's agenda for him, Rick promises to leave for good on the condition that Morty gets a selfie with the President, regardless of his grandson's lack of interest. When the President continues to refuse the request, Rick indirectly kills most of the Secret Service agents surrounding him, culminating in a lengthy battle with the President throughout the White House.

Meanwhile, a desperate Beth turns to Jerry for help with her identity crisis. Jerry does his best by explaining and recreating the moment he first confessed his love for her in vivid detail. Coming to terms with herself and realizing his unconditional love, Beth rekindles her relationship with Jerry.

Back at the White House, Rick finally forces the President to agree to do a selfie with Morty, only to find that his grandson has disappeared. Morty explains over the phone that he stole Rick's Portal Gun, Jerry and Beth are back together, and the whole family has gone into hiding so Rick won't execute her. Dejected, Rick concedes defeat and asks for the President's help in finding his family, promising to leave him alone from then on. Soon enough, Rick locates the Smith family hideout, arriving through the President's portal. After Beth tries to reason with her father, Rick assures her that she is still herself which is his daughter and only arrived to kill Jerry, but ultimately decides not to, begrudgingly accepting him back into the family, sacrificing his own position as the family patriarch. Having done enough damage in the current dimension, Rick seemingly plans to leave it for another and tries to get Morty to come, but he refuses, choosing to stay with his family. Rick grows annoyed with his grandson's choice, as there are countless dimensions he can go to where the same events have already happened. However, Summer's new-found ability to fart on cue like Rick convinces him to stay.

Afterwards, Rick (disguised as another dimension's version of himself called "Fly Fishing Rick") fixes his friendship with the President and returns home for dinner. Beth rejoices in their fresh start, as she is now happily married and finally standing up to Rick, with the whole family (minus Rick) laugh off her clone paranoia.

Post-Credits Scene: Mr. Poopybutthole has started his own family and his own life. He tells the audience he will see them for Season 4, Edge of Tomorty: Rick Die Rickpeat

