
While ostensibly helping a group of superheroes called the Vindicators, Rick instead drunkenly sets up a "Saw"-like scenario for them to navigate.


Rick and Morty start off in the garage cleaning up multiple worm-like creatures that Rick states cannot be allowed to get into the food chain. A crystal on the shelf starts to glow and Morty points out that it is the Vindicators calling to help save the universe again for what appears to be the second time. Rick outright refuses to answer an actual wikipedia:Hero's_journey#The_Call_to_Adventure, but ultimately relents because Morty brings up the fact that he gets to pick every tenth adventure.


Rick and Morty are then seen sitting at a conference table getting briefed by Supernova on the threat of Worldender. Rick ends up heckling them at first then introduces every member of the Vindicators there except for Vance Maximus Renegade Star Soldier, who then shows up and seemingly charms everyone except Rick. 

It is then revealed that this is actually the third time the Vindicators had assembled and that they didn't invite Rick and Morty the second time due to a "personality conflict" with Rick and the rest of the Vindicators, which resulted in the deaths of three members of the Vindicators (Lady Katana, Calypso, and Diablo Verde).



Rick then gets blackout drunk and we next see him pantsless and having gotten diarrhea all over the conference table the following morning. This mess is left to be cleaned up by Noob Noob instead of him going on the mission with the rest of the Vindicators. Then, Vance gives Morty a Vindicators vest as to symbolize he is a welcomed member of the Vindicators.



Inside Worldender's base, the Vindicators get through the traps, then into Worldender's main room. It is then revealed that Worldender is already dying/dead and Rick then tries to leave with Morty. But then, all of the Vindicators are trapped inside of the room, as set up by Rick when he was blackout drunk. It is revealed that "Drunk Rick" set up a Saw-like sequence where the Vindicators are forced to play games to survive or they all die.



Following a nervous breakdown, Vance then attempts to escape, only to be shot, burned and bisected in the ventilation system in a gruesome death. Morty then solves the puzzle, matching the Vindicators with Rick's opinion of them: Unoriginal.

File:S3e4 dorian 5.png
In the next room, Drunk Rick asks the Vindicators to locate a place they would never mention. Crocubot then goes to the hologram map of the universe to point out Dorian 5. However, he is wrong and crushed to death. Dorian 5 is revealed to have been a planet destroyed (along with its populace) by the Vindicators to defeat Doom-nometron, a shapeshifter hiding on the planet during the Vindicators 2 mission. Rick stated that if they just brought him along, he could have created a machine to find Doom-nometron in a second. Morty then goes up to the map and locates Israel, the correct answer, as Morty knows that when Rick is blackout drunk, he rants about the United Nations and defense budgets, to which Rick defends isn't because he's anti-semitic.

File:S3e4_more_death.png

In the next room they need to make 5 three-pointers in 5 minutes or else a neutrino bomb will blow up the planet. Morty goes to defuse the bomb, which is revealed to happen a lot more than Rick knew about, while the Vindicators work on scoring three-pointers. During this, Supernova, Million Ants, and Alan Rails discuss how Supernova and Alan were previously married, and how Supernova cheated on Alan with Million Ants. Alan and Million Ants then begin to fight, Supernova then suspends them in the air and Million Ants kills Alan. Rick makes a smart remark which is the final straw for Supernova who decides to arrest both Rick and Morty.

File:S3e4_complaining_about_morty_and_vins.png

In the final room, Drunk Rick asks for something he believes the Vindicators have that he wants. It is assumed Drunk Rick is talking about Morty because the Vindicators are heroes to Morty-- and Rick isn't. So Morty steps on the platform and he is taken down into a ride in which it seems Drunk Rick is expressing his love for Morty as his grandson. However, it is revealed the ride was intended for Noob Noob, simply because he laughed at Rick's jokes about the Vindicators while Morty was caught up in hero worship.

File:S3e4_brutality.png

Morty gets back out of the ride (with a look of disgust), and the platform they are on begins to rise. Supernova then goes to kill Rick and Morty for the deaths Drunk Rick caused, to which Million Ants tries to convince Supernova not to do it, only to be killed himself by Supernova.

Before Supernova can do the same to Rick and Morty, the platform reaches a party with music star Logic singing a rap song about the Vindicators. Supernova gets away, and when Morty points it out, Rick dismissively says that 20 people try to kill him a week, and he ends up getting high with half of them, pointing out that Gearhead is there. The latter who takes Morty's Vindicators vest when Morty discards it. Beth and Summer are also at the party along with other previously seen characters. 

File:S3e4_dabbing_im_dying.png

At that point Logic mentions Noob Noob in the rap song, to which Rick asks "Who the fuck is Noob Noob?", causing Morty to show another unpleasant look.

In the post-credits scene, Gearhead is seen with the Vindicators vest trying to pick up some (possible) college girls, But then when an alien terrorist attack strikes, he goes down an alleyway to ditch the vest and run away, before he trips on a pile of gears and is dismantled.
 


 

