

Summer and Morty travel interdimensionally to locate Rick and find a bunch of Ricks. Rick craves a very specific chicken nugget dipping sauce.


The episode starts out with Rick and his family sitting in a booth at an old fashioned American diner, Shoney's, talking about Rick's escape from space prison. Rick smells a rat and orders Jerry Smith (Replacement dimension) to fold himself over 12 times. "Jerry" only manages to contort himself into six folds, revealing that this is, in fact, a simulation based on Rick's memories.


A Galactic Federation agent named Cornvelious Daniel sitting in the next booth introduces himself and reveals that he has been sent to gather information from Rick's mind via a Series 9000 Brainalyzer. The agent makes it clear that Rick's brain will be liquefied at the end of the session, so he might as well revisit his memories one last time.



Meanwhile, Morty and his family are back on Earth, which is now being run by the Galactic Federation. Jerry now works an unspecified occupation, while Beth has lost her own job due to the Federation's advanced medical knowledge. Unhappy with their current way of life, Summer Smith decides to save Rick and digs up the Portal Gun buried by Rick in the backyard next to his own alternate-dimension corpse. Morty tries to dissuade Summer from doing so, but when the family's robot butler Conroy turns hostile and attempts to confiscate the portal gun, Morty transports them all to his "Rick Potion 9" family, which he and Rick C-137 abandoned previously.



After they arrive, Conroy is destroyed by Jerry Smith (C-137) and Summer Smith (C-137) from the abandoned Cronenberged dimension. Morty and Summer join them, along with Beth Smith (C-137), in a feast of roasted Cronenbergs. The cataclysm endured by this dimension affords Morty the proof to Summer that Rick does not care about anyone, especially his family. At this point, Jerry smashes the portal gun, preventing our Summer and Morty from leaving.



Agents from the Council of Ricks show up to investigate the compromised portal gun, immobilizing Jerry, Beth, and the other Summer. As Summer informs the agents that Rick C-137 has been captured, the agents dispatch a Seal Team Rick to assassinate Rick C-137, while Summer and Morty are captured. At the subsequent kangaroo court aboard the Citadel of Ricks, our Summer and Morty speak out against the council in Rick C-137's defense, and Morty reveals that he never gave up on Rick and was just trying to protect his sister from the dangers of life with Rick involved.



Back in the brain-link simulation, Rick stops by a McDonalds drive-thru, and orders Chicken McNuggets with Szechuan Chicken McNugget Sauce. Rick then shows the agent a memory of how he lost his Diane Sanchez and Beth Sanchez (C-137) to an explosion in his first Dimension C-137, driving him to Portal Technology his first portal gun. The agent collects what he believes to be the genuine portal gun formula and uploads it to the brain-link server. The agent then attempts to leave the brain-link, but his communication device fails. Rick reveals that the "code" given was actually a virus giving him control of the entire system and that the "memory" they visited was a "fabricated" origin story. Rick then transfers his consciousness out of the brain-link into the physical body of the agent.

At this point, the Rick Council Seal Team shows up and kills all of the aliens and Rick Sanchez (D-99), a SEAL Team Member shoots Rick C-137’s old body in the head, destroying it. Rick manages to transfer his consciousness from his agent body to Rick D-99. Quickly afterward, another SEAL Team Rick shoots the agent body, killing Rick D-99. Rick C-137 (in his new body) kills the rest of the agents and interrogates a surviving Rick, which the surviving Rick tells him that Morty and Summer are on the Citadel. Rick thanks the last surviving Rick and shoots him in the head. 



Rick rappels up a rope and leaves the Galactic Federation Prison and makes his way to the teleportation control room of the Citadel of Ricks by switching his consciousness into a high ranking Rick. He teleports the entire Citadel back into the middle of the federation prison, resulting in a heated battle between the two sides. Rick C-137 infiltrates the Council chamber and kills most of the Council of Ricks before ending up in a standoff with the final member, attempting to use Summer as a hostage.

With a clever bit of trickery, Rick and Morty combine efforts to save Summer and escape back to Earth, but not before Rick returns to the prison's control room and changes the Galactic Federation's currency, Blemflarcks, so that 1 blemflarck is worth 0 blemflarcks. With the economy in shambles, the Federation follows suit, sending the whole galaxy into chaos and resulting in many aliens leaving Earth.



By the time Rick, Morty and Summer return home, Jerry Smith (replacement dimension) is once again unemployed while Beth is simply relieved that her family is home safe and sound. Unhappy with his father-in-law's return, Jerry demands that Beth chooses between himself and Rick, leading to the two deciding on divorce.



Once Beth and Summer leave the garage, Rick reveals to Morty that he had himself captured on purpose in order to take revenge on both the Galactic Federation and Jerry for crossing him. By eliminating Jerry, Rick now takes on the role as the undisputed patriarch of the family, and Morty will be forced to continue on adventures with him as both Beth and Summer view Rick as a hero. Rick explains that all he wants out of all his plans is to get Szechuan Chicken McNugget Sauce, which was discontinued by McDonalds years ago. Understandably, Morty is visibly horrified by the revelation.

In the post-credits scene, Birdperson's corpse is reanimated with cybernetic parts and renamed "Phoenixperson". He and Tammy fly off into the distance, presumably to take revenge on Rick.

