
Face-sucking aliens cause issues for Morty and Rick, especially when after returning home they realize they left Summer behind in the aliens' world.


Morty is accidentally freed of a facehugger that had been controlling him and uses the chance to pry another off of Rick. Rick immediately understands the situation and kills their respective facehuggers. Neither know how they got to that point and Rick is dismissive of the parasitic alien species. That is, until they spot a shockingly developed city.

While trying to find Rick's car ship, they find out that Morty's facehugger was a celebrated leader, while Rick's was a political-soapbox-YouTuber that was largely looked down on contemptuously by the alien society. 

The two find the car tied to a freight ship that would drop loads of the alien eggs on Earth. While they had originally tried to make a clean escape using the corpses of their facehuggers as disguises, they are quickly seen through. Rick and Morty manage to leave the planet after causing devestating destruction to the city and its people. 

The two are in a good mood, high off of guilt-free murder. As they enjoy breakfast, Beth asks about Summer. The two stutteringly make excuses and head back to the planet to look for Summer who they'd completely forgotten about. 

After causing more mayhem, the two find her being waited on and worshipped by the aliens. After having them arrested Summer goes to their prison cell and explains what happened after Rick and Morty stupidly got close to the facehugger eggs and got possessed.
Summer, who's new "thing" was chewing on a toothpick, killed whatever facehugger tried to jump on her. She finds out that the facehuggers generally only lived about half an hour before laying eggs in their hosts and died an explosive death. Using that to her advantage, she reasonably coaxes a new way of life, where they didn't all have to die just for the sake of laying eggs. 

Summer quickly becomes their ruler and appoints Morty's facehugger, Steve, as their inspired leader. Rick's facehugger, Bruce, grows jealous and leaves their growing government to make those anti-politic online videos. As things are going well, Steve and Summer chat in a friendly manner before she brings up freeing her brother. Steve realizes that all Summer wants is her family back and goes to Bruce to rant and complain. 

Bruce resentfully gives Steve an I-told-you-so, but Steve is exasperated with his social stance against their species' progressive life. Bruce angrily explodes that he was angry that Summer had taken away Bruce; revealing his jealousy. 
{{Quote|'''Steve:''' Why do you hate her so much?!<br>'''Bruce:''' Because she took you away from me!}}

Although awkward at first, the two makeup with a sizzling kiss and plan to runaway together. That's when Rick and Morty were freed. 

Her story done, Rick and Morty are a little bewildered that Summer would know how that second half of the story went, but she dismissively waves it off. Everyone around the office knew about Steve and Bruce. 

Summer's plan for escape is sentencing the two to death... by way of leaving in Rick's car. And of course, Summer had to go with them to make sure they died. The facehugger society is not stupid however and catches on that they're all just trying to escape. When they were jailed, Rick and Morty discover that Morty's terrible harmonica playing causes the aliens to combust. So, using the car's speakers they massacre even more of the aliens before finally leaving the planet. 

When they reach home, Summer goes back to her room and Rick and Morty retire to the living room. For a moment they believe the aliens really had laid eggs in them and they were going to explode. But it just turned out that they both just actually shitted theirselves

After the end credits, Tricia Lange watches Jerry keeping bees in the garden from Summers bedroom window, after she increasingly implies she’s sexually attracted to him to Summer, she finally says she wants to have sex with him to a bored and annoyed Summer; who sarcastically responds "Oh, ''really?''". 

