
Rick and Morty get caught in a continuity-creating anthology device full of people telling stories about Rick.


On a train zooming through space, a bearded man enters the dining car.  A conductor with a red misshapen nose says "Tickets, please" and takes his ticket. The man sits down at the bar. A second man sits next to him and asks the bartender for a drink for his "colleague", presuming they are both on the train to kill Rick Sanchez. He suggests to the first man that they swap stories and begins his own.

In the story, the second man is seated on a throne of skulls and orders his minions to lower a prisoner into a vat of acid. Rick enters. The man asks Rick how Rick found him; Rick responds to his questions with farts. The man orders his minions to attack Rick, who quickly defeats his attackers. The man from the bar says, "Now *I'll* fight you!" Uncharacteristically, Rick looks scared and flees.

Back on the train, the second man now asks the first man why he's going to kill Rick; the first man replies annoyed that he doesn't know any Rick Sanchez. As others begin telling their own stories of Rick, the first man leaves the dining car. In the next car, the man encounters a circle of storytellers regaling one another with heartwarming tales of Rick's good deeds. Goomby, one of the storytellers, relates the story of how Rick saved "Space Christmas". The group laughs appreciatively, then aggressively demands the man should tell his own "Christmas Rick" story. The first man angrily declines and threatens them with his gun so that he can leave the car.

Entering the next car, he encounters a blonde woman wearing a low-cut top, whom he threatens to shoot if she cues up a Rick vignette. In explaining she doesn't know how she got there, she begins a cutaway story in which she enters a train car (the conductor appears from behind a plant and takes her ticket) and meets an older woman who asks her why she dated Rick Sanchez. The older woman embarks on her own cutaway story about when Rick met her family, which is interrupted by a warning shot from the man's gun. He admonishes the blonde woman for beginning a vignette; she protests that she wasn't trying to. The man begins to monologue about the train amplifying and linking narratives. When the woman becomes distracted by her own cleavage, the man realizes what's happening, and the two reveal themselves to be Rick and Morty in disguise.

Rick explains they are stuck in a literal story device, an anthology. The conductor enters. Pointing his gun, Rick tells him to stop the train, but the conductor turns out to be a powerful fighter. After he skillfully uses Morty as a human shield, Rick instead shoots the train window, sucking the conductor half out the window.

The conductor is suddenly in an arcade. He pulls off a helmet attached to a game (which he's just lost) called "Tickets Please". He returns to his family but doesn't believe anything is real. Moments later the top half of his body tears away bloodily and begins to pirouette toward the arcade ceiling, spraying blood everywhere. The scene cuts back to outside the train, where the window Rick shot has cut the pirouetting conductor in half.

Rick plugs the hole in the window, but so much air has gone that the train deploys "emergency continuity" as oxygen masks that drop down. Rick breathes in, then takes the large tank connected to the masks labeled "Continuity". Train police break in, threaten Rick and Morty to tee up a story about Rick and end up shooting the tank, which explodes.

Cut to a police training class, which is using the last scene as an educational tool. But Rick and Morty are suddenly among the students. They subdue the students and the teacher, and Rick finds a diagram labeled "Anthology" in the teacher's desk that shows a circle with eight segments (Dan Harmon's "story circle").

The train rumbles, signaling an act break and a musical number with Rick and Birdperson. Via the continuing narrative of the pirouetting conductor at the arcade, the story winds its way back to Rick and Morty, wearing space suits and walking on the hull of the train. After putting the conductor out of his misery, Rick and Morty must disrupt the "thematic seal" by Morty telling an unrelated story. Morty eventually succeeds by telling a story of Summer and Beth fighting off scorpions with their period rays. The two of them make it into the train's engine compartment before Rick runs out of air, only to confront Story Lord ("like a Matrix space Frasier"). 

Story Lord captures and binds them and reveals his plan: drain Rick and Morty of story potential to fuel the anthology train. After a series of cutaway narratives, modulated by Story Lord's control panel (which influences things like "narrative energy" and "broad appeal") , Rick and Morty find themselves in a final narrative that Story Lord views through a runed portal: the pair must face armies of Meeseeks, Citadel Guards, male Gazorpians and Evil Morty. Rick defeats Story Lord's plans by telling Morty about Jesus Christ, his personal savior. The control panel drains of power, and the train grinds to a halt.

As Veggie-Tales-like cartoon characters surround Rick and Morty, Story Lord jumps into the narrative through the portal to yell at them. Jesus Christ descends from the heavens and drives everyone to their knees, and Rick and Morty use the distraction to leap back through the portal, trapping Story Lord in the narrative. But when they try to restart the train, the controls crumble away, fake.

Cut to Rick and Morty in the Smith living room looking at a glowing model train traveling in a circle. Morty has bought it for Rick at the Citadel. Rick expresses great happiness that Morty spent money and engaged in capitalism. In the train narrative, Story Lord is talking to Jesus Christ, who decides to escape by summoning magic blood. In the living room, the train short-circuits and derails. 

Rick grows angry that the train is broken. When Morty suggests that he could return the broken train, Rick gets angrier and tells Morty to buy another one instead, reminding him that "''nobody's out there shopping with this Wikipedia:COVID-19 pandemic!''"

The post-credits scene is an ad for Story Train.

