
Rick reluctantly gives in to Morty's wishes to get a pet dragon, then things get weird. Jerry befriends a talking cat and they go to Florida.



After the events of an adventure where Rick Sanchez and Morty are seeking out a purple cube (which results in the death of their assistant Chachi), Morty reminds Rick that he was promised a dragon. When Rick tries to brush it off, Morty brings up how he agreed to help with the adventure in exchange for one. Irritated by his constant demands, Rick sprays Morty with a gas which inadvertently knocks them both out and causes the Space Cruiser to start veering out of control as they head back towards Earth. After crashing, Rick wakes up in the hospital to Beth reiterating Rick's promise to Morty.

At home, a The Wizard summons a dragon called Balthromaw and produces a blood oath contract that Morty signs, bonding him to the dragon forever.


After Morty receives his dragon, Jerry Smith pulls Rick aside and inquires about a Talking Cat he found in the house; Rick mentions that he has no idea about it before leaving. Accepting it, Jerry asks the cat several times why it can talk but the cat tells Jerry not to worry about it; to go with the flow and not ask too many questions. And that they go to Florida.

After Morty flies around with Balthromaw for a while, they land for a break. While Morty puts on the pretense that what they have is a partnership of equality, Balthromaw only wants to laze around, which Morty roundaboutly shuts down. 


The dragon retreats to a newly dug cavern underneath the Smith family yard; while Rick is watching TV with Summer Smith, they both notice and poke fun at how dejected Morty is with a dragon. After Rick is nearly killed by the dozing dragon's flame breath, he goes to kill it; after he ambushes Balthromaw, Rick takes a close look at the treasure that he is guarding and is amazed by some of the contents. He decides to not kill Balthromaw and they go off and cause havoc at a nearby zoo. Enjoying the other's company, Rick and Balthromaw perform a "Soul Bond" ritual, connecting their souls together. 


While this happens, both Morty and Summer witness this, causing Morty to lash out in anger. This breach of the contract summons the Wizard and, pronouncing Balthromaw a slut dragon for having bonded to multiple riders, whips the dragon (which Rick can feel due to their bond) and takes the dragon away to sentence it. Rick, Morty, and Summer than travel to the dragon world to save Balthromaw and undo their soul bonding.

Meanwhile, with Jerry and the cat, they had a nice time with a bunch of party-goers playing volleyball on the beach until one discovers some cat poop barely covered in sand. The cat quickly blames it on Jerry, causing the party-goers to chase Jerry away and the cat goes with the party-goers onto a nearby party yacht. After the cat is later thrown off the boat, it swims back to Jerry.


While they attempt to free the dragon, Rick, Morty, and Summer learn that the bonding is permanent and nothing can be done; the four are then forced to flee into hiding. While laying low, they and Balthromaw encounter several other outcast/slut dragons including Debranavox, Michael (Dragon) and the Shadow Jacker. They eventually join forces via a massive soul-bond ritual and are able to fly back to the lair of the Wizard; the combined energy of the Smiths and the slut dragons kill the Wizard and frees Balthromaw, Rick, Morty and the other dragons. Since the Wizard is dead, the bond between Balthromaw and Rick is broken.

After returning home, Rick immediately leaves with the excuse that Jerry needs to be picked up from the airport with the talking cat and severs ties with the dragon. And Morty eventually dismisses Balthromaw as well, sending him away with disgust.

After traveling for a while, Rick makes a stop in the desert so they can supposedly stretch their legs and is able to trap the cat inside an energy box. Rick tells the confused cat that he will do a mind scan on it to discover why he can talk, despite the latter’s repeated claims of being from space. Rick calls the cat out on the lie and looks through his vision goggles to discover the history. Subsequently, Rick is aghast by what he sees, looks away horrified. Seeing Rick act this way, Jerry wishes to see for himself but Rick tries in vain to stop him. Jerry ends up repeatedly vomiting in the sand before crawling backward away from the cat. The cat wants to amend things, but Rick banishes it in the desert; as the latter tries to plea with them; Rick and Jerry mutually scream at the cat to go away. 

{{quote|He was in my home... where I keep photos of my parents!|Jerry}}

Rick offers to erase Jerry's memories, the latter refuses, believing someone needed to remember. Despite this, Rick erases Jerry's memory anyway to spare him the mental anguish and torture.

The post-credits scene shows Balthromaw carrying his plunder through the street and scaring off a motorist who tried to proposition him. The cat soon arrives and the two decide to stick together, becoming friends who have been rejected by humans.

