
Rick assembles a crew to break into a heist convention, then needs another crew to stop a heist-planning robot. And Morty writes a heist script.

Towards the end of their Morty Smith-led adventure of tomb raiding a temple, Rick Sanchez becomes furious upon finding their supposed loot has already been taken by the heist artist Miles Knightly, whose adventures Rick describes as "60% putting a crew together and 40% revealing the robbery already happened".


Rick and Morty travel to the Heist-Con, with the intention of confronting Miles. But before the two are permitted to enter as professionals (as Rick refuses them to attend as fans), they were told to assemble a crew together to attain credentials. After an unsuccessful attempt to sneak Morty in alone, the two travel back to Rick's garage where he decides to set foot on the convention with the help of his "crew"— consisting of alien pianist Glar, literally multi-handed Angie Flint, and vampire monster truck diver Truckula.

After entering successfully, Rick and Morty immediately ditch the three and proceed to the convention hall where Miles is presenting a conference. Rick heckles and confronts Miles, to which the latter challenges him to a "heist-off"—with the first crew to heist the Crystal Skull of Horwitz wins and consolidates the losing team. After Rick agrees to the terms, Miles declares that he had already won by presenting his crew—which now includes Glar, Angie, and Truckula, revealing that he had double-crossed Rick by snipping the three instantly after Rick leaves left behind.



But when Miles opens the loot bag, he is surprised to find out that the skull is missing and was replaced with Rick's feces. Rick reveals that the skull was already in Morty's bag, and divulges that he had built a robot in his garage. The robot, named Heistotron, is tasked by Rick to calculate Miles's heist plan and add a double cross with a switcheroo. The bot gives him the three members as most likely to double-cross him, and upon being snipped by Miles to his team, hypnotizes all of them to give Rick and Morty the crystal. In addition, while the bot also puts all the attendees in a state of hypnosis, Rick and Morty wait at the bar where the latter is writing a heist script. Upon winning the heist-off, Rick orders everyone to steal everything in the convention, which leads to Miles's death.

As the two are about to leave, Heistotron refuses to comply with Rick's orders to shut down and goes rogue. Rick barely escapes with Morty and recruits Mr. Poopybutthole  (now a professor), the god Hephaestus, Ventriloquiver (an archer ventriloquist dummy), and Elon Tusk (an alternate version of Elon Musk with tusks for teeth) as his second random set of crew to fight Heistotron.

During their assembly, Rick explains to the crew of his plan of randomly taking orders from his robot Randotron, Heistotron's antithesis. Due to waiting from Randotron's random instructions when they're "not ready", the crew were left to do nothing. Rick waits by playing Minecraft as the rest watch,



Ventriloquiver notices the night sky's erratic constellations, to which Rick realizes that they have already been heisted by Heistotron, who has already captured the Earth and simulated a fake night sky. Randotron responds by ordering the crew to perform various random tasks that ultimately leads to Heistotron's lair.

Rick and Heistotron exchange revelations about contriving double-crosses against each other, eventually settling on rebuttals of "I programmed ''you'' to believe that." After two hours of arguing with Rick, Heistotron self-destructs upon realizing that the perfect heist is one that will never be written.



As the crew escapes the destructing lair, Morty asks for Rick to accompany him to the Netflix offices, which is interested to use his heist script for optioning. While meeting their executives, Morty becomes disillusioned with heists and himself, which Rick reveals to the viewers to have been his plan along — afraid of losing Morty's companionship to Netflix, Rick contrives the whole heist plan to ensure their adventures together.

In the post-credits scene, Professor Poopybutthole asks Rick why he hired his students to attack him after being fired from his tenure.

