
Rick and Morty get caught up in a full-on snake war after a space snake bites Morty. Jerry tries to prove he can hang Christmas lights without dying.


While getting ready for an adventure, Rick and Morty stop to talk to Jerry, who is on top of the roof, trying to set up Christmas lights. Morty passes on Beth’s concerns that Jerry will kill himself in the light-hanging process. Jerry says he can hang lights safely; Rick responds by accusing Jerry of lying. Jerry promptly falls off the roof, but before he hits the ground, Rick zaps him with a ray that makes Jerry’s body lighter than air. He then zaps Jerry’s shoes with a ray that makes them heavier than air, rendering Jerry “neutrally buoyant”. As Rick and Morty climb into the spaceship, Jerry celebrates his buoyancy, which allows him to jump high up in the air and then slowly sink back down. Remembering a warning that the ray will eventually wear off, Jerry sets a timer to keep track of how long he will be neutrally buoyant.

In space, Rick and Morty are arguing about piss and centipedes when (somehow) the spaceship hits “a sharp thing in space” and gets a flat tire. Rick puts on a spacesuit and goes out to fix the flat, giving Morty strict instructions not to follow. Morty promptly ignores these instructions, dons a spacesuit, and goes outside. Rick, who is fixing the flat, starts yelling at Morty to go back in the ship. While the two are arguing, a snake astronaut slithers up and bites Morty in the ankle. Morty kills the snake by breaking its astronaut suit with a hubcap, but it is clear he has been seriously injured.



Soon afterward, Morty begins to turn purple, a symptom of the poison that the snake injected into him when it bit him. Rick flies to the snake’s home planet, scans it, and synthesizes an anti-venom serum, which promptly cures Morty. The scan also reveals that the snakes on the planet have formed an advanced patchwork of industrial societies— there are 19 billion snakes divided into 10,000 nations, all on the brink of global war because of race. Rick remarks that the concept of racist snakes is hilarious, and begins to fly away. Morty, horrified that he killed an astronaut who might have been the snakes’ last hope for survival, and despairs that he is the reason “19 billion snakes lost all hope!” Rick responds that the snakes’ loss of hope is their own fault, reminding Morty that the snake astronaut bit its first alien contact.

On earth, we see Jerry bouncing into the city, where he sees a group of friends of many different races playing basketball together. Jerry asks to join the game, offering a bet that “this white boy can jump”. The players take exception to Jerry’s use of racial epithets, pointing out that the basketball court is the one place left in society that racism has not touched. Jerry tries to make amends, but ends up inadvertently implying that he is a Nazi. He decides to just try taking a jump shot, but as he jumps up, one of his shoes falls off, causing Jerry to go flying up into the sky as the basketball players look on, taking pride in the fact that their neighborhood has integrity.



After returning from the space adventure, Morty continues to blame himself for the snake planet’s impending doom. Having held onto the space snake’s body, he holds a vigil, where he hatches an idea on how to restore hope to the snakes. He goes to a pet store & buys a snake roughly the size of the space snake to take her place, whom he names Slippy. Morty proceeds to draw markings on Slippy similar to the ones the space snake had and then force Slippy into the space snake’s astronaut suit, being bitten multiple times in the process.



Morty then flies Slippy to the snake planet and throws her out the window. A parachute opens on the spacesuit, gently carrying Slippy down to the surface. Military officials from one of the nations on the snake planet detect Slippy and intercept her.




We then see a montage of Snake scientists, academics, politicians, and military officials attempting to interact with Slippy. The nation’s president appears at a press conference with Slippy, who hisses at reporters in a language they don’t understand. Snake academics record these hisses and attempt to decipher them. One snake professor finally manages to translate them. The military then recruits the professor to talk with Slippy, who is being held in a room at the Snake Pentagon.

The professor talks with Slippy, first through an intercom and later by entering the room and speaking with her directly. Though Slippy seems suspicious at first, she eventually grows to trust the professor. She wraps herself around the professor in an aggressive display of affection. Though surprised, the professor quickly reciprocates, and the two make love while being monitored by other snake military officials.

Back on earth, Rick, Morty and Summer are playing Downbeat when Beth enters the room and asks about Jerry. Morty, much to Rick’s chagrin, reveals that Rick made Jerry lighter than air. Beth expresses concern that Jerry will fall out of the sky to his death; Rick responds that that could only happen if Jerry messes up wearing shoes. Quickly realizing that that is in fact quite possible, Rick and Beth rush to find & save Jerry.



Jerry is revealed to be flying through the sky while attempting to return to the ground. He has tied the legs of his pants together and is holding the torso area open so the pants will fill with rainwater. Beth calls Jerry on his cellphone and tries to convince him to tell her where he is so Rick can pick him up. Jerry tells Beth nothing is wrong and that he is just buying lights at the store. However, Rick notices that he is lying and freezes Beth using a special remote, and then tries to level with Jerry, but Jerry rebuffs Rick. As far as Jerry is concerned, his predicament is a "win-win": if he survives and returns home, it will be without Ricks help, but if he dies, it will be entirely Rick's fault. Rick decides to let Jerry try to get out on his own as he manages to lower himself enough to grab onto a tree. Before unfreezing Beth, Rick activates a special gadget in his lair, which created a disfigured, fungus-grown Jerry head, whom he uses to trick Beth into thinking that her husband was okay.



Meanwhile, in a bar, Jerry walks in, carrying a boulder into a bar and looks for a driver. The bartender and patrons tell Jerry he can’t bring the boulder in with him. When Jerry drops the boulder, he floats up to the ceiling; the bartender and patrons tell him this isn’t allowed, either. The patrons end up throwing Jerry out of the bar, causing him to immediately fly up into the sky again.



Back at the house, Morty is in his room when a snake-shaped robot Portal Technology to his position. The robot attempts to kill Morty, but a snake enters the room wielding a shotgun. The snake and robot fight with each other, and Morty runs to the garage, where he warns Beth and Rick about the snakes. Beth and Rick are initially skeptical at first, but when snakes and snake robots start appearing in the room and trying to kill Morty, they quickly get the message. Beth, Rick, and Morty grab weapons and try to kill the snakes, which keep attacking in growing numbers. A humanoid snake robot arrives to tell the family, but Beth crushes him to death in a panic. Morty asks Rick why the snakes would attack him when he was just trying to help them. Rick angrily responds that by sending Slippy to masquerade as the original astronaut, instead of leaving well enough alone, Morty unwittingly informed the snakes that there was something bigger and scarier to unite against. Now, instead of falling into the Dark Ages for a couple of generations, select snakes create new technology such as time travel in an attempt to kill him.  

In other words, none of this chaos would be possible if Morty simply did what Rick said in space and stayed in the car. 



True to Rick's words, some time in the Snake Planet's future, the war costs the lives of 17 billion snakes by the end. Soon after, a new ''Terminator''-esque war rages between snakes and machines. The surviving snakes from the previous war managed to defeat the machines in part because Morty somehow helped unite them.



Back at the Snake Planet, Rick and Morty land on the planet where the war between snakes and machines is in its earliest stage. Rick and Morty fight their way into the Snake Pentagon, where they defeat robots and snake soldiers alike. They briefly see Slippy, who is being threatened by several time-traveling robot snakes and protected by time-traveling snakes, making her a central source of the conflict that can determine the planet's fate. 

File:S4e5_2019-12-29-14h27m31s472.png

They then reach the center of “Snakenet”, where a time machine is under construction. They kill the scientists making the time machine, but they realize that it is not even a quarter finished, Rick makes a mental note to blueprint time travel in a format snakes can understand or, in his case, "committing more to Morty's current 'fuck-ups' ". As he said that, future versions of Rick and Morty show up with a book full of instructions on time travel written in the snakes’ language, portable time machines, and snake costumes. Future Morty, who is sporting a black eye, rudely insults current Morty, and future Rick insults current Rick. Future Rick and Future Morty then leave. Rick and Morty put on the snake costumes, travel back to 1985, and leave the time travel instructions at Snake MIT before returning to the present, hoping the snakes' own self discovery will be their undoing. 

After they leave, a snake student and his peers read the time travel instructions and use them to build a time machine. They send a student back to the 19th century to prevent Snake Abraham Lincoln’s assassination, sending him a letter which told him to duck, preventing his assassination. The student returns victorious, only to find that the ripple-effect of protecting Lincoln has altered the timeline and caused his present to be ruled by Snake Nazis.



Not taking any chances, the student grabs a chainsaw and steps back into the time machine. In 1938, Snake Adolf Hitler is giving a speech in Snake Berlin. He then goes inside to take a shower. A series of snake time travelers show up— some seeking to kill Snake Hitler, others seeking to protect him, or just fight one another as Snake Hitler stares at them in confusion. The time travelers start killing each other, leading to pandemonium.

On earth in the present, Jerry briefly calls Beth to ask for help. When she doesn’t answer, he leaves a voicemail promising to come home with “the best Christmas lights ever!” He grabs ahold of a jet, which he holds onto when the neutral buoyancy wears off. A snake-human hybrid robot approaches Jerry and offers to save his life; Jerry, thinking the robot is from Rick, kicks it away, causing it to fly into the plane’s engine. The plane careens toward the ground— Jerry jumps away at the last minute, grabs a tree, and climbs to safety.

Back on earth in the present, time-traveling snakes and snake robots are raining down on the suburbs, still fighting to the death. Summer & Beth are hard at work killing them, but to no avail. Morty worries that giving snakes time travel just made it worse, but Rick reassures him that things will work out in their favor, knowing what would happen next.



In the fourth dimension, Shleemypants receives a phone call, informing him of the incident. He and another time cop travel to the snake planet and go back in time until they find the first snake to use tools. They proceed to beat that snake to death, thereby preventing the snake civilization (as we know it) from ever developing. In the present on earth, all the attacking snakes and snake robots suddenly disappear, the ones that haven't fallen writhing in pain before involuntarily eating their own tails. As this counted as one of Morty's adventures, Rick pulls out the card, but this time, he tears it apart, declaring that there are no freebies because of what happened.



Jerry reveals himself to be on the roof, and claims he was there the entire time. He then promptly falls off and breaks his leg. Rick heals the leg halfway, claiming that the other fifty percent is on him. He then remarks to Morty that Jerry sucks, yet Morty does not challenge this assertion Rick, Morty, and the family go inside to have some eggnog, only for the former two to once again encounter their future selves, who rudely remind them that they need to make snake costumes and translate time travel instructions into the snakes’ language. Both Rick and Morty resign themselves to doing this.



In the post-credits scene, they finish the instructions and time machines and travel to the snake planet to hand off the instructions, but before doing so, Rick punches Morty in the eye while reminding him to stay in the car next time. This resolves the causality loop and explains Morty’s black eye.

{{-}}

