
Morty challenges Rick to build him the real-life equivalent of a "save game" function to live without consequence. Also, there's a giant vat of acid.


Rick and Morty travel to a factory. During the flight, Morty mentions that Rick might be setting him up for a double-cross. Morty seems done with Rick's shenanigans. Rick tells Morty that they don't have to worry - and as a last ditch effort, if things "go wrong", that he's got a plan, and tells Morty to leap into the same vat of acid he does. Morty still complains, and says he should be doing English homework. However, Rick doesn't budge and resumes the ride.

Rick meets up with some intergalactic barters who he trades with. All seems well until the dealer tells Rick he's been duped, and that they successfully scammed Rick. Angered by this, Rick forms a third arm and shoots a dealer in the head. However, still held at gunpoint, Rick and Morty are forced to jump in the vat of fake acid that he prepared in advance. Rick and Morty sink to the bottom of the vat of acid, and open up predetermined hatches in order to trick the dealers into thinking that they died. The dealer and his cronies take time to watch the bones settle. They are in shock that a grandfather would commit suicide with his grandson, and mourn over Morty's death. Rick and Morty lie in wait at the bottom of the vat, until the dealer and his cronies vanish. Morty begins to get impatient after an extended period of time, as the dealers take the time for self-reflection and then decide of the bones, and takes it upon himself to rise out of the acid and kill the dealers. He misfires, and Rick takes the gun from him and kills all of the cronies. They then make a getaway.

Morty begins to get mad at Rick's faulty plan, and that Rick should be more open-minded instead of falling back on himself all of the time. Rick argues that he was able to handle things all by himself when he was turned into a pickle, and that Morty's adventure with the dragon was a total disaster. Morty then waves the fact that Rick likes to ignore most ideas Morty pitches over his head. As the argument escalates, it turns out that Rick has already refused Morty's request for a device that would allow him to save a point in time (like that of a video game), so that Morty can visit said time restarts. Rick, in a fit of rage, reluctantly agrees. Shortly after, Rick admits that he actually is unable to make said device, and proceeds to shoot Morty. After being shot Morty is still breathing - suggesting he was stunned - however, Rick triggers the device creating the first time stamp and encourages an oblivious Morty to have fun with the device.

Over the next few weeks, Morty has a lot of fun with his time-saving device - including pulling his teacher's pants down, talking to his love interest Jessica, avoiding embarrassing moments, rectifying bad decisions and saving himself from death. One day, he activates the time save before approaching a girl outside of a coffee shop to talk to her. They get along well and go on a date, which leads to a long-term relationship. Morty and his (unnamed) girlfriend go through many ups and down over the following months, and even break-up at one point, but emerge stronger than ever. The two go on vacation together, but the plane they boarded on crashes and they get stranded on a mountain range. They are forced to resort to cannibalism to stay alive, and Morty starts trekking across the mountains to retrieve his backpack. Although he finds the time-save device, Morty decides not activate it, and uses his frost-bitten hands to call for a rescue. He is saved just in time, and after an extended stay in hospital Morty and his girlfriend fully recover from their ordeal. At their welcome home party, Morty and his girlfriend are happier and stronger than ever... until Jerry mistakes the time-save device for the TV remote and hits the buttons, 'restoring' Morty's save point back to before he approached his girlfriend. He tries to approach her again, but gets pepper-sprayed in the face for his troubles. In his pain, he falls on the time-save device and saves that point, leaving him unable to go back and try again.

Depressed that the time-save has only made him more miserable, Morty throws himself to a bunch of gorillas at the local zoo a few times. Finally he goes to see Rick, sick and tired of restarting time, and decides to take these experiences as an opportunity to face the consequences of his actions. 

Rick however lets Morty know that his previous actions did, in fact, have consequences. Stating that he has never believed in time travel, reveals to Morty that the boy didn't perform any "do-overs", but rather "did it, over and over". Showing a recording of one of these "do-overs", Rick shows that all the "time resets" were actually different probabilities of him all along. This caused the death of numerous Morty's, moving the present Morty in their place, not unlike the movie ''Prestige''. Disgusted with his actions, Morty is in a state of despair, as he doesn't know what to do or how to fix the mess he caused. Rick suggests that he can fuse all of his alternate selves and their respective universes. Fed up, Morty complies and Rick reveals that he is not Morty's original Rick but another Rick who says all Ricks have a vat of acid. He then merges the universes together and returns Morty to the first save point with his Rick. All of a sudden, a bunch of law enforcement members and protesters appear outside of Rick's garage, with anti-Morty posters (consequences of his actions in the other universes). Morty is terrified and confused, however Rick is determined to make Morty learn his lesson and tells him to jump into the fake vat of acid he's set up. Grumbling, Morty does so (just as his previous girlfriend arrives, only to leave in tears upon seeing Morty go into the acid) and hides at the bottom releasing fake bones just like he did before. Satisfied, and feeling a bit guilty, everybody vacates the premises except for the two cops. The cops seem to doubt Morty's death and drop a ladle in, and Morty's attempt to blow it up results in him accidentally shooting the cop in two and splashing his partner with the fake acid. The remaining cop, instead of coming to the logical conclusion, believes he's immune to acid and leaves happily after insulting and exposing himself to his dead partner. Rick is satisfied Morty has learned something: to "never make fun of him again, ''ever''", and decides to head home (saying he wouldn't waste their home reality on this crap) lamenting that the reality they're in was nice, as Johnny Carson was still alive and on the air, 9/11 never happened and Rocky Road ice cream had peanut butter instead of marshmallows.

In the post-credits scene, the surviving cop goes on Johnny Carson's show proclaiming that he is immune to acid. He is lowered into a genuine vat, where he suffers a slow and painful death.

