
With the rest of the family out of town on a cruise, Rick is left to his own devices at home and decides it's time to reconnect with an old friend.


Leaving on a trip, Smith Family leave Rick Sanchez home alone. When they leave, Rick goes to the The Garage and activates "Best Friend Rejuvenation Sequence," which brings the cybernetic, half-dead Birdperson out of the wall Rick had stored him in in "Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri". Rick removes his cybernetic parts and tries to bring him back to life, but finds that his conscious mind is hiding inside his unconscious mind. With no other choice, Rick enters Birdperson's mind to save him.

Rick arrives, nude, in the memory of their meeting at an alien music festival, using a bystander to point him towards Birdperson. He goes through a memory of a battle between Rick, Birdperson, and several The Citadel agents, before landing in a memory of Rick, Birdperson, Squanchy, and several other Resistance fighters planning "The Battle of Blood Ridge". Memory Rick notices him and Rick reveals to him that he is just a sentient memory, before incapacitating him and finishing a device that lets him track Birdperson through his mind.

He finds Birdperson observing a memory of him and Tammy Guterman together. Birdperson rejects his rescue attempt and flies away just as Gromflomites soldiers attack. Memory Rick joins Rick in the fight and the two win, going off to find Birdperson. In the garage, both Rick and Birdperson are having a seizure. The AI that control Rick's garage notices neighbor Gene walking by, and convinces him to bring it as many batteries and solar panels as possible.

The Ricks track down Birdperson to a large red crystalline tree. They split up, Memory Rick entering Birdperson's memories suppressed by the Galactic Federation after being transformed into Phoenixperson. Rick finds Birdperson making bombs out of rage, and, upon seeing Rick, he detonates them in an attempt to destroy his own mind. Memory Rick sees Birdperson's death as the tree begins to collapse, and the Ricks run, not before Rick stops at the memory of his fight with Birdperson in "Star Mort Rickturn of the Jerri", defeats Birdperson, and orders himself in the memory to give him his clothes. The destruction of the tree turns all of the Bird People nearby feral.

The Ricks go through the "PTSD-Station" to get to Birdperson, and end up in the Battle of Blood Ridge. Memory Rick, eager to see it, is delighted to find that the Resistance easily wins the battle, mostly because of the efforts of Rick and Birdperson. As Rick looks for a way out, Memory Rick observes that after the battle, Rick offered to take Birdperson to whatever reality they wanted to go to and stop fighting, but Birdperson rejected it, stating that it was not worth his integrity.

Birdperson has taken a Memory Tammy to watch the sunrise with him at their home, and both are ambushed by the Ricks. As Rick argues with Birdperson to try and take him back, he reveals that both him and Memory Rick had learned that Birdperson and Tammy had a Birdperson's Daughter. Birdperson decides he will live for his child, held by the Federation, just as the memory Federation attacks. The four steal a Federation car and drive through Birdperson's memories.

Rick reminds Birdperson of a time when they used the mind erasing gun on Jerry and they travel to Rick's garage, where they retrieve the gun. Rick explains that to reach the exit, they need to use memories that Rick and Birdperson share mainly rooted in anger and sadness to "lily pad" their way to a happier memory of their first meeting where they indulged in the use of the illicit Federation substance Senthol Diempathate. They travel through a funeral of a friend, Squanchy's attempt at stand-up comedy, and Rick, Birdperson, and Squanchy's band. As they arrive at a portal that will take them out, they are attacked by another Tammy, who Memory Rick throws into the abyss along with himself. A black, bird-like goo creature attacks, Birdperson says goodbye to Tammy, and Rick and Birdperson fly out of his mind.

After narrowly escaping the collapse of his brain's neural pathways and regaining consciousness, Birdperson confronts Rick over not telling him about his incarcerated child until it was "necessary to save" himself. Disappointed, he leaves just as Gene arrives with his batteries. Panicking, the garage pretends to not know him and shuts the door. However Rick is not angry and tells the garage that he understands.

Meanwhile, it is shown Memory Rick is still alive after transporting himself inside Rick's brain. Rick finds him and offers to make him real to get a drink, Memory Rick follows but hesitates realizing that doing so would mean he eventually becomes present Rick.

In a post-credits scene, Birdperson's daughter is picked on by an inmate in a Federation prison, and is seen attacking him before being dragged away.

