
When Rick starts using birds as sidekicks, Morty finds a new partner in a portal. Is Rick and Morty's interdimensional partnership done forever?

Morty Smith travels from dimension to dimension, cleaning up messes that Rick Sanchez has left in the aftermath of their adventures. As he finishes his bucket list, he returns to the garage only to find Rick has marked a notch on his container of portal fluid so he would know if Morty use the portal gun. Panicking, Morty mixes Mountain Dew with the remaining fluid, which the gun seems to accept. He accidentally spills the remaining portal fluid on his palm, which creates a small portal that regurgitates junk and shows him a man named Nick, who tells Morty he has a portal on his thigh.

Rick finds out that Morty tampered with the gun, and, furious, decides to have Morty replaced by a wheel of names, deciding on two crows. Nick, somehow familiar with Rick, cites their relationship as abusive and encourages Morty to embrace this change, while Rick easily catches and trains two crows. Morty tracks Nick down, finding him in a mental hospital. A sheepish Nick explains he met Rick at a bar and became too curious about his portal gun, leading Rick to shoot him out of a catapult and force a mental breakdown. Using their portals, Morty and Nick fight off the hospital's abusive staff and dub themselves "The Portal Boys".

While on a mission, the crows try to save a group of tortured aliens over a valuable artifact, leading Rick to dump them on a planet of intelligent crow aliens. The aliens pull down his ship, offended at the notion of him abandoning their kind, and help Rick become more in tune with the crows. Nick and Morty break into the garage, where Nick helps Morty vent his rage against Rick by wrecking the place and taking an empty prototype portal gun. When Rick returns to Earth with the crow aliens and sees the trashed garage, they notice the wheel and realize Rick's crow training was all an elaborate joke. Furious, the aliens turn all nearby crows feral and take Rick's crows, with him pursuing.

Nick and Morty go to Rick's portal fluid supplier and things turn violent when Nick pulls a gun. He incapacitates Nick when he shoots unarmed civilians and flees. As Rick breaks onto the crow ship and is quickly captured by the aliens, he gets a call from Morty and answers. Morty apologizes for lying to him, and Rick admits the crows were just a bit. Hearing this, his crows allow themselves to be transformed into crow aliens by a large energy egg. His crows pretend to attack him, but actually reattach their laser wires and use it to kill the aliens and destroy the egg, which changes them back.

Morty is attacked by Nick, who runs his car off the road and corners him on a set of train tracks. He inadvertently reveals his story of Rick hurting him to be a lie, and Morty, realizing he has to disconnect their portals, severs his hand under a train wheel and drops it in Nick's thigh, creating a singularity that destroys him. Seeing Morty outside the house while flying down in a crow ship, Rick regrows his hand and rejects their partnership, declaring himself a bad partner and that Morty would be better off without him. Morty watches tearfully as Rick cleans out the garage and waves goodbye, leaving in a crow ship to start the "Rick and Two Crows" show, which he announces to no one in a drunken ramble.

In a post-credits scene, an alien that eats Rick's trash which has been dubbed "Garbage Goober" is confronted by his wife. She reminds him that his work is not what he signed up for and that he is a doctor and deserves respect. When Garbage Goober finally agrees to ask the family for dignity, Summer Smith offers him trash to eat, he eagerly leaves to go consume it.

