
Rick's still doing the crows thing, but a middle-aged Morty hopes to reconnect with Rick, leading them down an emotional path in a familiar location.


Rick Sanchez, now fully immersed in the "Rick and Two Crows" show, has become an anime protagonist that fights anthropomorphic owls with gadgets related to birds, his crows by his side. After defeating some in combat, Morty Smith approaches him, desperate to get back together. Rick rebuffs him awkwardly. Some time later, Rick is approached at a bar by a now middle-aged Morty, claiming Rick has been gone so long that Jerry Smith has died of cancer and Summer Smith has gotten married to a junkie. He begs Rick to come home, but Rick again rebuffs him.

The crows sneak out at night to plan adventures with Crowscare, Rick's nemesis. Realizing the crows were using him to get over a breakup the same way he used them, Rick returns home, only to find Morty was lying and he took aging serum from the The Citadel to emotionally blackmail him. After Morty gets properly re-aged, he notices a deformed Morty raving about the Citadel being an inescapable weapon of mass destruction, before he is shot by the police. President Morty invites the two to have dinner with him, with Rick expressing doubt and planning to leave if things go awry.

Over dinner, President Morty hints that Rick built the Citadel and requests information from Rick on how to "bring down the Central Finite Curve." When Rick refuses, President Morty reveals he kept Evil Rick Sanchez's partial scan of Rick's brain from "Close Rick-counters of the Rick Kind", having completed it as Rick had been sitting at the table, and states he has enough to do what he needs. When Morty apologizes to Rick for bringing him to the Citadel, President Morty, disgusted, uses the brain scanning device to show Morty visions of Rick, as leader of the Citadel, previously having had Mortys tortured, used as labor, and having their parents' lives tampered with specifically to create more Mortys. He allows the two to leave, but Rick realizes his portal gun has been hacked (with internal coordinates locked to the Blender Dimension) after shoving a Rick guard into it and seeing the result. Rick C-137 then recognizes President Morty as an "evil" variant he had previously personally encountered, the only person to have ever hacked his portal gun.

The Citadel's portals go haywire, killing anyone who tries to step into them, despite broadcast warnings instructing them not to. Rick and Morty go underground to try and find untapped portal fluid, seeing more deformed Mortys being used as slave labor. When Morty presses Rick on his involvement with the Citadel, Rick gives him the brain scanner and Morty uses it to see Rick's backstory. This sequence confirms that Rick is in fact a widower, and that he spent a decent portion of his life on a path of vengeance. The tragic loss of his wife and daughter leads him to travel across countless dimensions (with some even inhabited by unique versions of him and his family), to gather intel in service of tracking down the presumed killer. He encounters many other Ricks, and even observes naturally occurring alternate versions of Mortabel and Summer on his journey.

After Beth Smith and Diane Sanchez's murder at the hands of Weird Rick, (first shown in "The Rickshank Rickdemption") Rick C-137 perfects his Portal Technology and uses it to explore dimensions and do research. He begins selling weapons and murdering those who cross him, later meeting Birdperson and joining the fight in the resistance before immediately going their separate ways after the Battle of Blood Ridge. He sets his sights on killing the Rick who murdered his family, massacring hundreds of versions of himself to find his target. A large number of Ricks of the multiverse hold a conference to decide how to stop Rick, who decides to crash the meeting, kill the speaker, and jadedly slaughter a large number of the audience with explosives. After Rick eventually tires of it, the survivors assemble into the Council of Ricks and, with Rick's assistance, built the Citadel. Upon finishing, he crash-lands on a version of Earth where Beth is still alive and takes up residence there, taking Morty as his sidekick.

The two reach the Citadel's Dimensional Drive, where President Morty explains the Central Finite Curve is a multidimensional wall that separates all the infinite universes where Rick ''isn't'' the smartest man alive from all the infinite universes where he ''is'' the smartest man alive. President Morty intends to break through it so he can live away from Rick entirely. He claims that what makes him "evil" is hating Rick and wanting to leave, and if any Morty has ever felt the same, then they are "evil" as well. Doubtful, Morty asks Rick if he came back to him because he got over the crows, or because they got over him: Rick is unable to answer. At the same time, President Morty switches on the machine, which is powered by the blood of hundreds of Operation Phoenix clones, all rerouted to the Citadel.

Seeing Rick's deception once again, President Morty offers Morty a chance to come with him. Rick himself acknowledges that it is a better deal than staying with him, but Morty rejects this and opts to stay with his grandfather. The portal gun empty, the two escape the Citadel by detaching part of it and flying away, loading it up with Mortys and activating the booster together just as President Morty uses his machine to tear open the Curve and launch himself through it in a small spaceship. Coming out on the other side, he sees the rest of the multiverse and smiles while he activates a hologram from his wrist that shows the Central Finite Curve breaking apart and disappearing. Finally, he opens a gold portal with an improved gun and steps through it.

In a post-credits scene, Mr. Poopybutthole talks to the audience about the end of the "Evil Morty" arc and the collapse of his relationship with his wife after Rick caused him to lose his job in "One Crew Over the Crewcoo's Morty", hypothesising about becoming "Evil" himself (shown in "Never Ricking Morty"). As he makes dinner in a tiny apartment, he urges the audience to give love back to those who love them.
