
It's a busy night at the Smith house as Rick's nemesis pays a visit and Morty invites a girl over. Then some stuff happens with a portal in the garage.

A mortally injured Rick is carried by Morty in their escape from a warring dimension. However, their ship and its controls are damaged beyond repair, and Rick passes out from his wounds before he can fix it. Realizing they're about to die either through re-entry or by the impact, Morty decides to call Jessica and confess his feelings for her, blaming the timing for not doing it sooner. However, Jessica reveals that she was interested in Morty for some time now, and asks to visit his house to watch a movie. Revitalized by this revelation, Morty tries to regain control of the ship, which he does at the last second, but he hits a palm tree that catapults him back into the Gulf of Mexico. Despite the nature of his wounds, Rick wakes up and sees where they landed, and in a panic, tries to flee with Morty, but is too late as his old arch-nemesis, Mr. Nimbus, appears and cries foul at Rick for violating an ancient treaty.

Back at the Smith Residence, Rick is frustratingly preparing the table for dinner between himself and Mr. Nimbus. Despite Morty's attempts to get out of it, Rick assigns him to be "booze guy" for the dinner as he leaves a few crates of wine in a "Narnia Dimension" as Mr. Nimbus prefers his wine aged to a few centuries. Mr. Nimbus arrives and controls the police to do random things after Jerry tries to call them to get him out of the house. Jessica arrives shortly after and is hurriedly rushed to the living room by Morty and gets her to choose anything she wants from the TV while he deals with Mr. Nimbus' demands for wine. Back at the Narnia Dimension, he encounters a couple who kept the wine safe for a few decades and give him love advice for his date with Jessica. However, once he returns, Mr. Nimbus consumes them both in a split second and orders Morty to get more, to his dismay. He goes back, only to find the deranged son of the couple he met just a few minutes earlier trying to kill him for the murder of his parents. Morty briefly leaves to regain his composure before returning, and kills the couple's now elderly son in front of his children. Realizing he told them the truth, they apologize to him shortly before dying of his wounds, and made a blood oath to kill Morty should he return.

As time goes by, the farm evolves into a fortress and then the fortress into a castle, with all of its inhabitants bent on killing Morty. They believe they accomplish this when he returns for more wine and they open fire on him forcing him to retreat. Fed up with all these setbacks, Morty equips himself with every weapon and armor he can get and massacres the entire castle of its inhabitants in a fit of rage. He finds the remainder of the wine and heads back, unaware that he left his levitation glove behind for a group of survivors to pick up.

Finally done with all that, Morty gives all the wine to Mr. Nimbus, save for one bottle, which he smuggles to the living room for himself and Jessica to share. He tries to apologize for making her wait, but she ignores all that and kisses him. Before this can progress any further, they decide to drink up the wine and find a bottle opener, but Rick tries to drag him away to be a witness to the "contract" that he and Nimbus are making. At the same time a dog-horse specimen named Adam (who is the son of the woman who found Morty's levitation glove in the ruins of the castle following its destruction at Morty's hands) dons a power suit, opens a portal and arrives in the kitchen with the intent to kill Morty. Despite his best efforts (and after being distracted by Mr. Nimbus), he is defeated by Jessica, who after finding the bottle opener, uses it to stab the tube connected to his suit. This causes his suit to implode (following a brief vision where Adam encounters a giant owl-like creature) and in turn, causes the tube to sever, flail and connect with the bottle opener which Jessica continued to hold in her left hand and consequently, sucks Jessica head first into the Narnia Dimension as it returns to it's point of origin.

Meanwhile, Rick and Mr. Nimbus fight over terms when Rick snaps and yells at Mr. Nimbus, claiming he doesn't need anyone or him to make him feel better, though Nimbus suggests that he's turned into a hollow shell of himself because of Diane, causing Rick to strangle him. Meanwhile, Morty is tricked by robots into capture and sees Jessica, seemingly unconscious, encased in a crystal above him. While the scientist robot monologues as to why the society before them picked him for petty vengeance, Morty is able to break free of his restraints and free Jessica in the process. On the way back, they're surrounded by robots. Rick sees Morty and Jessica struggling to break free from a robotic tentacle and attempts to rescue them just to get rid of Mr. Nimbus, but he is dragged into the dimension as well and his weapons are stripped from him, forcing him to run into an enclosure with Morty and Jessica. Just as it all seemed lost, a huge wave of water along with an army of sea creatures rushes in and engulfs the entire dimension. It's revealed that Mr. Nimbus had secretly followed Rick and rescued him from the robots, causing Rick to reconcile with him.

Back at the residence, Rick and Mr. Nimbus have started to get along well when Summer returns with a conch shell she acquired from fighting deep-sea creatures in the Mariana Trench, completely ruining their relationship once again, and Mr. Nimbus beats up Rick before controlling the police to arrest him. At the same time, Jessica, who unfortunately, is revealed to have actually been fully conscious for the centuries of time she spent in the crystal, has opened up to time and begins to philosophically rant to herself before calling off the date with Morty, saying they should just be friends. As she walks into the night, she flips off a nearby driver and declares herself to be a time god.

Afterwards, Beth and Jerry head to Mr. Nimbus' place to take up an offer to a threesome with him after seeing his approval of them as a "progressive couple" earlier. They start to have some doubts on pulling through with it until Mr. Nimbus opens the door, and the couple sheepishly dive into his arms.

