
Beth crashes Rick and Jerry's hellish guys night out, while Morty and Summer attempt to use a spaceship to impress a cool new kid at school.

Beth Smith asks Jerry Smith to watch Morty Smith and Summer Smith due to an increased workload, but Rick Sanchez stops her, shocking her by claiming he and Jerry are having a "guy's night" and have been for a while. She leaves the kids alone under threat to not cause any trouble, while Rick orders them not to touch any of his things. Morty plans to invite over Bruce Chutback, a new student at their school, and Summer agrees to help him impress Bruce in hopes of getting some in with him. "Guy's night" is revealed to be Rick letting Jerry hang out with demons who feed off of misery, paying back a debt he owes them for selling faulty skinhooks.

Bruce arrives. Morty and Summer try to impress him with interdimensional cable and wine, but he is instead taken with Space Cruiser. The car's defense system comes online when they try to take it, but Summer and Morty convince it that Rick is in danger and they need to take it to go save him. They fly around the universe, showing Bruce different planets and smashing up anthropomorphic mailbox aliens called "mailboxians" with a baseball bat.

Her work conflict resolved, Beth tracks Rick and Jerry to a karaoke bar and watches the demons enjoying Jerry's fumbling. Rick admits he is using Jerry to keep the demons satiated, but Beth confronts them regardless. Having heard good things about her from Rick and wanting to meet Jerry's wife, they invite her to drink "Essence of Hell" wine with them, and she accepts.

Midway through their joyride, the car's system stops Bruce, Morty and Summer. It reveals that it has a recording of the entire night and plans to show Rick everything when he returns, using the time it has left to do whatever it wants and blame it all on the trio. The car uses a solar system as bait to catch and kill a gigantic god-like alien, then declares itself bored. It lets the kids get a meal before it takes them home and lets Rick punish them. Parking at a restaurant, it is dinged by a "Changeformer," a robot that can turn back and forth between a car. Believing the car is a Changeformer as well, he invites it to hang out with them at a galactic ski resort and leaves. Bruce gets the car to admit its insecurity about being a virgin and suggests helping disguise it as a robot, in exchange for it not telling Rick about the joyride, to which it agrees.

A drunk Beth shares embarrassing stories about Jerry, which he takes in stride and does not understand that they are meant to make fun of him, only understanding when he overhears two demons talking about him while using the bathroom. Hurt, Jerry argues with Rick and Beth, boring the demons. They go on a rampage and kill everyone in the bar, taking Jerry through a Portal Technology to Hell, with Rick and Beth pursuing.

At the ski resort, the car has disguised itself as a Changeformer, only to have its fake head knocked off when the one who invited it tries to get a kiss. As he insults the car, it lights the room on fire and kills all of the Changeformers in a rage. It escapes the planet with Bruce, Summer and Morty still inside, with police in hot pursuit. Worried that they will be killed if shot down, Morty ejects them from the car and the trio is arrested.

Rick and Beth disguise themselves as demons and infiltrate the chamber where Jerry is being held, but are ambushed by demons. When Rick tries to electrocute them, he finds that the pain only causes them pleasure, leaving him unable to attack. They plan to keep Rick and Beth to have someone to react to Jerry's miserable attempts at humor and give them more suffering to feed off of and raise them up on Rick's faulty skinhooks, but they crumble and allow the three to escape.

The kids are given a Alyson Hannigan, which turns out to be the car, having killed their lawyer and put a chip in the corpse's head to control the body. The car tries to get Summer and Morty to give Bruce to the authorities, but they refuse, so the car blows up the body it is inhabiting and escapes with the three through a hole in the wall, blowing up the police station that was holding them.

Rick, Jerry and Beth kidnap a demon and restrain it to a wheelchair with a turret on top. Rick explains the turret shoots shrapnel that will convert the pleasure from pain back into pain, but needs Jerry's misery to power it. When Jerry refuses, Rick sincerely apologizes for misleading Jerry and admits that he does care about him, which ends up powering the turret. They use the turret to defeat the demons and portal out of Hell. Rick aggressively tells Jerry that guy's nights are over, which he takes in stride, to Rick's annoyance.

Barely making it home in time, the kids collapse on the couch as the adults notice nothing suspicious. Bruce tells Summer and Morty that while he had fun, he wants to get a sense of what they're like via the school's opinions of them, negating the point of them inviting him over, and leaves. Summer and Morty conclude that Bruce is lame and decide to drink the wine that they offered him together.

In a post-credit scene, Bruce hangs out with the popular kids at Harry Herpson High School, who all believe him to be cool, until Sharon Lewis points out that he wore the same pants the day before. They reject him and start calling him "Bruce Chutpants," which a watching Summer and Morty observe will stick to him. As he walks the streets, despondent, a group of mailboxians pull up in their mailbox-shaped vehicle and beat him up before driving away.

