
Morty falls head-over-heels in love with an ecological superhero, leaving Summer to join Rick on a bender of interplanetary apocalyptic hedonism.


While out buying custom t-shirts, Rick Sanchez and Morty Smith are assaulted by acid rain caused by a cartoonish villain named Diesel Weasel. He is attacked by a Captain Planet-esque superhero named Planetina, who defeats him with her elemental powers, impressing Morty. When Rick tosses an aluminum can on the ground, Morty recycles it, attracting her attention. He awkwardly invites her on a date, to which she accepts, flying away with him and shocking Rick.

At breakfast sometime later, Beth Smith expresses concern at the idea of Morty dating a woman who looks much older than him, which he shrugs off. Summer Smith laments Morty's success with women while she has been recently broken up with, and Rick invites her on a bar crawl across three planets that are all about to end via natural disaster, to which she accepts, despite Jerry Smith objections. Morty receives news of a wildfire and ignores Beth's protest, going to it with the hope that he may see Planetina.

He arrives just as she stops the fire and the two express their mutual attraction to each other. She mentions having "kids," but is actually referring to the Tina-teers, four people who carry elemental rings and summon her using them. The Tina-teers arrive on the scene, and Morty realizes that they control, exploit, and profit off of Planetina. While Planetina is being interviewed by a news team, the interviewer notices Morty and asks if they are dating. Planetina hesitates, but Morty claims that they are, to her delight.

As they fly to the first planet, Rick and Summer make a "no attachments" deal in regards to any sexual encounters they may have. They arrive at the first planet, Morglutz. While there, Rick finds himself attracted to an alien named Daphne, and goes off to have sex with her. Summer shouts after him to have fun and reminds him to not get attached.

At night, Morty stays up flirting with Planetina over text. He thanks her for the flowers she sent him, which are a massive amount grown to look like his face. She appears outside his window and the two have sex. As Summer and Rick leave Morglutz and the planet is destroyed, she hears a noise coming from the trunk, which Rick brushes off.

At a convention called Eco-Con, the Tina-teers summon Planetina to host a panel, but Morty is taken with her during the summoning, the two still asleep together. The Tina-teers dispel her and security drags Morty away. The fire elemental, Eddie, assures the dirt elemental that he will deal with Morty. On the second planet, Slartivart, Summer realized Rick has taken Daphne with him, leaving her furious at the violation of the rules.

Morty, meanwhile, is tied up in a broom closet by security. Eddie reveals his plan to sell Planetina to a rich Arabic ambassador. He lights a mop on fire and attempts to burn Morty's face, but Morty knocks him down, frees himself, bites Eddie's finger off, and burns him and two guards alive with his own ring. He breaks into the conference room where Planetina is being sold, and kills the rest of the Tina-teers with their own rings, as well as two more guards and the ambassador.

After the destruction of Slartivart, Summer struggles to ignore Rick and Daphne having sex in the back of the car. During a break, Daphne talks to Summer, revealing why Rick is so attracted to her: she has a pair of breasts on each of her elbows. Summer remains confident that Rick will dump her upon reaching the third planet, but Daphne casually disagrees.

At home, Morty reveals that he has invited Planetina to live with the family now that she is free from the Tina-teers. Beth is still disheartened by the age gap of the two and demands Planetina leave. Morty, enraged, confesses his love for her, and the two leave together, going off to stop natural disasters and environmental destruction. Without anyone reigning her in, Planetina becomes more violent, slashing the tires on a highway full of cars, burning down a congressman's mansion, and killing a mine full of workers in a fit of rage, horrifying Morty.

On the last planet, Ferkus 9, the citizens are having a planet-wide orgy while Rick and Daphne dance together. Summer tries to dissuade him, telling him that Daphne is just using him, which he denies. She takes the ship and flies towards the asteroid about to crash into the planet, destroys it, and comes back down, asking Daphne if she will continue to stay with Rick now that they are no longer in danger. She casually leaves, shocking Rick. As they fly home, Summer apologizes, and Rick tells her that while he is angry at her, it was very like him of her to stop an apocalypse just to prove a point. When she apologizes again, he brushes it off and tells her he would do the same if she needed it.

Morty, alone in his room, is visited by Planetina. She begs him to try and make their relationship work, but he refuses, too disgusted by her actions at the mine. She insists that violence is the only way to save the Earth before bringing up how he killed her "kids". Planetina then confesses her love for him but he sadly rejects her declaration. When he asks her to try and understand, she curses him out tearfully and flies away. Beth, hearing the argument, comforts a weeping Morty as the arrangement of flowers Planetina made of his face shows signs of decay. The song playing in the background is “I Am the Antichrist to You" by Kishi Bashi.

In a post-credits scene, an alien from Ferkus 9 who had sex with his father, believing the world was going to end, arrives at work the next day. The two awkwardly converse before the son wishes him a happy birthday. 
