 Morty, are you getting sick?  I told you not to practice-kiss the living room pillow. The dog sleeps on it. Dad? Jerry! Oh, dad… Scalpel. Jerry? Jerry, please tell me you're here for an incredibly urgent reason. Okay, I only ask, Jerry, because, as you know, my job involves performing heart surgery. Excuse me? Hey, Tom! We know when we're losing him. WE CAN HEAR THE BEEPS! I am not putting my father in a home! He just came back into my life, and you want to grab him and stuff him under a mattress like last month's Victoria's Secret? It's fine, Davin. Look, I appreciate the stress you're under, but Morty was having trouble in school way before my dad moved in, and the only influence I can see Rick having is that, for the first time in his life, Morty has a friend. Uh, yeah, maybe I am. I'm my father's daughter. I'm smart. Why do you think I'm a heart surgeon? What? Why didn't you notify us? Summer? What? Dad, how could you make my son miss an entire semester of school? I mean, it's not like he's a hot girl. He can't just bail on his life and set up shop in someone else's. We're moving you to a nursing home. What does that mean? Oh, don't high-road us, dad. You know fully well that Morty is the last child that needs to be missing classes. What the hell? Jerry, I don't want whatever's happening here to stop. You know what? Okay. Jerry? Oh, Jerry. You mean because it had dogs in it. Want kinda question is that? Jerry, do you want homeless people to have homes? Are you gonna build them? Then what good was the "yes"? Loving you is work, Jerry, hard work, like building a homeless shelter. Nobody want to say "no" to doing it, but some people put the work in. So what do ya say? Do you see me working here? Does this conversation seem tedious to me? But I obviously sort of love you, don't I?  So stop asking and maybe I'll love you more.  Crap, They need me at the horse hospital. The racetrack had a starlit derby, there's a seven horse collision, and Davin's there alone. Hi, dad. Summer, Morty, are you okay? Sweety, is your shirt on backwards? You realize they sing no matter how much you tip. Holy shit! What happened? W-what? It's still alive. It's not an armadillo, asshole! If we were near a hospital, I could treat it, but I-I think we have to just- So... Require different levels of skill to keep alive? Get the deer in the car, Jerry. Emergency, wounded deer coming in. I'm a certified horse surgeon, and this deer needs medical attention. Nurse, please move that snake. As a vet, I'm sure you know a deer is closer to a horse than you are to a doctor, so let's save the measuring for when our dicks are out, it's time to save a life! That's odd, this deer's wounded. I mean it's been shot. With a gun. In your dreams, bitch! Scalpel! You son of a bitch, you don't stop living until I SAY SO! Jerry, if you're not gonna help, get the fuck out of here! I will reach into heaven and yank your screaming deer soul back! Isn't there a kitten somewhere that needs a manicure? Whatever. How petty would I have to be to care less about an animal's life than my own ego? Where are we going? Where's the helicopter? But the top deer surgeon... I need five minutes. Jerry, this was the most romantic weekend I've ever had. Hey guys, we're home.Morty & Summer I'm gonna pee my pants. I'm gonna pee-hee-hee. Jerry, get a job. Oh, okay... I squanch my family. What? I do, I squanch my family. It’s not God, Summer. Shut up, Jerry. Dad, what do you know about this? How is praying going to help? Now hold on a second, let’s be rational about this. No, I’m… I’m just saying, we don’t know if there’s a cause-effect relationship -- Oh, God, what’s going on now? Holy CRAP! We should pack up and leave town now. Yeah, sure. Wait, what?? Dinner sounds nice. I don’t know what to say. Summer is doing really well here. She’s not getting pregnant or doing drugs or missing curfew… That’s not our business as long as Summer is thriving! That’s wonderful, Summer! The world? That’s my dream! That’s my dream. Absolutely not. We’ve been waiting 16 years for our daughter to respect us, but the key is, it has to be “our” daughter, not this person she’s become. And I‘m lucky to have you and I never tell you that! You know, we will come out of this stronger as a family! Please don’t do this, please don’t do this! Summer! We should go get him. Why would you keep mutant bacteria in a pint of Cherry Garcia? Not anymore. Go in the waiting room, Dad. I can't believe you're explaining alien cereal, we're worried about Jerry. Is that something we should be concerned about? Yes? WHAT!?! I don't care about prosthetics, this is insane! What do you people think you're doing? Oh, I don't think you do. I bring my husband in for emergency medical treatment, he's gone an hour, and now you want his PENIS, and you hand me some... catalog. It's--It's--It's--It's, I mean. Woah! Woah. So, billions of life forms? I mean, Jerry, y-you didn't explain the full gravity of the situation. Well I don't think that's fair at all, Jerry. At all. In fact, I think this whole paradigm has sexist overtones. You know, I think, the bottom line is, Jerry, if you want to keep your penis, you should say, out loud, "I prefer to keep my penis." Well, Jerry, what kind of wife would I be if I did anything to stand in your way? Dad, it's great to have you back, no matter where we are, but wouldn't you like to go home? Summer, show your father some respect. He's pulling down a six-chewable figure income. Stop saying his name! He abandoned us. Don't make my mistake, Summer. Don't deify the people that leave you. You'll end up a horse surgeon in a world controlled by aliens whose medicine keeps horses  healthy forever.  Horses live longer than tortoises now. Is that what you want for yourself? Jerry, what the hell is happening?! Are you okay? Just each other, and I'll never let you go. And I'm so sorry I ever did this to us. Please don't leave me again. Jerry's going to spend some time divorced. Oh, God, Dad, that is not your burden to bear. I feel terrible that I misjudged you. This is gonna be good for Jerry. For everybody. I better tend to Jerry before he changes his mind and doesn't move out. I will leave you two to your adventures. Morty, we have to get going, or we're gonna be late. Where's your grandpa? What?! Why would you -- Look, we're running late. We have to go. We have an appointment downtown that was set a week ago and agreed upon by everyone, including you. Morty! Nobody needs anything! Okay, it's fine. I mean, you should just stay here and figure out how to stop being a pickle, okay? Enough. Kids, it's time to go. We don't want to be late. Well, I mean, you don't want to get pierced by a needle full of liquid unrelated to your situation. How's that gonna help? Great. We'll see you later. It's nobody's choice to be here, you knobs. The family was told to get counseling by your principal, even though it's not the family that was huffing pottery glaze in the art room and desk wetting in history class. Temporarily. By order of the school. He got wrapped up in an experiment. He's a scientist. Like, legit, like on an inter-galactic, sci-fi level. His work is very -- Morty, Mom's talking. I'm sorry, I suppose that's a good segue into our little discipline cases here. What? No, what kind of question is that? Oh, Jesus Christ, one of these. No, my father has never turned himself into a pickle before. He's unpredictable and eccentric. The whole family is. Speaking of which... I didn't say my father is perfect, I said his work is important. Oh, he did not! Do you really not see what's happening here? Well, Dr. Wong -- by the way, racist name -- obviously, Morty and Summer are seizing on your arbitrary pickle obsession as an end run around what was supposed to be their therapy. Fuck you. Fuck both of you, too. You're the one that costs $200 an hour. You tell me. My kids pee their desks and suck on unbaked vases. That's the point of pottery-enamel huffing, Summer. You do it so you don't have to say "I'm angry at mommy" out loud. He won't have to ask for it, okay? He won't need it. He'll just make more. He doesn't need anything from anyone. It's better than making your problems other people's problems. I am afraid that my kids will get expelled. Dad I would like you to tell me what's in the syringe. Oh, it's fine. I mean, thank you, and, yeah, you shouldn't. But I hope you know that's not what that session was supposed to be. She huffed enamel, and we never even talked about it. Oh, my God, yes! Dad, it's in my purse. Oh, I'm sorry. You must be in agony. Weird breed. Really? Like, go somewhere? Yeah, let's drop the kids off and go tie one on. So what are you thinking, like, Smokey's Tavern? Maybe Shoney's? Morty, you're wearing a Vindicator jacket. Are you a little superhero now? Steve, you're so sweet! Dad, why does our house have blast shields? Jerry, buttons don't work better if you hit them harder, and foam fists don't make you strong. But how did you know it was Nicky? So we can't trust any of our memories now? Nicky was the reason we found that old nazi submarine. Did that not even happen? Don't worry, Jerry. Just relax. We called the fire department. Aww. Mr. Beauregard. Oh, wait, don't leave without letting Photography Raptor take a picture.   Uh, dad, that's like 10 people. That's it. Photos. Hard evidence.  You're not in any of my photos, Mr. Poopybutthole.  Too many. And don't forget his incredibly vague back story. Oh, are you, dad? Are you? Uh, roller coasters aren't bad, Mrs. Refrigerator. They're thrilling. And you've been a perfect companion to me my entire life. Hmm? Yeah, yeah, yes. What time?   What're you, my life coach? Sweetheart, are you okay? I didn't mean to -- It's not, don't overreact. I can clean it up. Thank you, sweetie. I thought it was too good to be true that we'd have compatible kidneys.      Whoa. What the hell? Open the door! Open the door! Open the door!  Get out here and help me! Ugh. Sorry, Jerry. You're real. Yeah, but you're real. Uh, uh, I need time to forget about Sleepy Gary. Wait, but I -- I-I thought -- Oh, he -- he's looking a lot better. Is, um, is he mad at me? Can he have visitors? Can you please make Morty fourteen again, dad? This is ridiculous. Well no, honey, not a reset, okay? Tell your grandpa that you’re worthy of his respect and you wanna be treated differently from now on. So dad, guess what tomorrow is... No... well, it might be... Fine, but also, tomorrow is your one year anniversary back in our lives. I'm gonna make you flying saucer-shaped pancakes. Happy anniversary, dad! Nonsense, we couldn’t be happier to have you around. I just wish I got to see more of you. Dad! Wait, wh-wh-wh-what about Jerry? Our son’s been abducted! Who wants lemonade? Aww, thank  you! Coffee time! Morty, please. I love you, sweetheart. Dad, the dishwasher's doing that thing again. No. The opposite. Can you fix it? So many possibilities. I want I want to be a more complete woman! I got pregnant at 17. I mean, I still put myself through veterinary school. Yes, I'm successful, but what if I hadn't...-- I'm just saying, somewhere along the way, I lost that wide-eyed girl from muskegon. Well, her waistline isn't. You're saying I should leave Jerry.  I can't believe I'm finally having this conversation. I think I've had enough. The most important love you can receive is from yourself. Our Meeseeks have been gone for hours, Jerry. Notice anything different? I'm going out. Well, you're busy. I'm hungry. I thought I'd go out. Do you want me to be happy or do you want me to be in prison? Jerry, maybe it's time I take that trip I always talk about. I don't know, man. Italy. Greece. Argentina. Run, Jerry! Jerry, turn around. Straighten your back. Bend your knees. Bend them. Square your shoulders. Take a deep breath. I love you. Jerry, look. We don't have a perfect marriage, but I'm not going anywhere. When we were in that freezer, I realized the Meeseeks are like the guys I went to high school with willing to say anything to "complete their task." The difference is you didn't disappear afterwards. Yeah... Uh, your Meeseeks box happened. They went crazy when they couldn't take two strokes off Jerry's golf game. He felt terrible. Dad! Is there anything you can do to clean this place up? I don't get it. Hold on. Called it. What in the hell? Go back, go back! How is this possible? Are we sure we want to do this? Look at our own alternate lives? What do you see?  Haven't we spent enough time on you?  I'm performing surgery... but not on a horse, on a human!  I am a real surgeon. Well, you should select a different timeline, I mean, if your father and I achieved our dreams, there's a chance you weren't even born-- That came out wrong, that came out very wrong. Yahtzee's fun. We love Yahtzee. Holy crap, I am winning a Nobel Prize. When two people create a life together, they set aside their previous lives as individuals. Oh, I get it. Now that you know you could have had it better, you resent me for holding you back.  What are you talking about? Everyone thinks about it. Obviously, I'm the version of me that didn't do it. So you're welcome. So now what do we do? You can't leave, you're 17! Did you really talk me out of the abortion?  I think, in my head, I was doing it all for the kids. And now the first kid is going to... do something with turquoise. So, we didn't do the kids any favors. So, we should stay together for each other and ourselves... or...   You did it, Beth. You really nailed it. You're a surgeon. A human surgeon. Yay you win.    Jerry? J-Jerry Smith?  So, the hamsters live inside the rectums of those people? *robotic* I’m going to work. Morty, good morning. Dad, good morning. I am going to work. Goodbye.  Yes, we will have as much fun as possible on our...  Titanic-themed getaway. Speaking of disasters, dad, we are leaving you in charge, here.  Hey, don't blow me off. I am drawing a line, okay? Any damage to this house or these children when we get back, and... no more adventures with Morty.   Jerry, I'd love to just kick back with a Margarita and read. Do you mind if I skip the whole "king of the world" bit?  Well, what about her? Excuse me, ma'am. Would you like to take my place in line?  We won't tell.  I am gonna go back to the room to finish my book. You should find that Lucy woman.  Bet you're glad I think kindles are dumb now. I can't help but feel a little guilty. I didn't peg Lucy for a rapist. What? Well, at least you got all this free stuff.  Should be enough to satisfy your Titanic Jones for a while.  Jerry, just leave the door. I don't care. Just leave it.  Morty, I think it will be fun for you to work on a science project with your dad. Alive? For your parents? Hey man! Aw, Dad... That is so sweet. Holy crap, Joyce. That's amazing. Hey Dad, where's Morty? Whatever it is, it's beautiful, Leonard.  And we support you. Jerry, come on. This is what you wanted. What? Jerry, let that stuff go, okay? I'm sorry I was a bitch earlier. Let's just be here. Jerry doesn't know what he's missing. I dunno, Jacob. Jerry got an invitation to be alive today, and he rejected it. I don't know if our marriage will— Oh god. Jerry! Jerry, what are you- what are you doing in here? But you can't go in the garage when Rick's not here. Well, he doesn't like it. What is that supposed to mean? Oh, stop affecting that stupid hip-hop dialect!  I don't know, let's just leave! You don't know it was him!  Anyway, we’re not supposed to be in here! Oh, you know my dad. Once he puts his mind to something... Jerry! Okay, you're just making stuff up now. Goddamn it, stop. Jerry, stop! Please, okay, we weren't even supposed to be down here. If we confront him about this- Oh listen to you relish the idea that my genius father is a bad person! Step out of your ego for a second and look at this thing! It's a monster! He might have it chained up so that it doesn't eat the planet! He's probably racing to cure its space aids! He's protecting it! You're the worst! You think supporting the family is about supporting you emotionally... ...but you're unsupportable! Because it's never enough, Jerry! It will never be enough support to satisfy you! And you don't even know what it's like... ...to be afraid of losing anything because you cling and you cling and you cling... Oh my god! Dad...  I... um... Jerry and I were looking for our weed whacker, and found your subterranean lair... and your alien prisoner. And... he got away. And I know I sound like mom but I can't sacrifice this whole family's safety just because I'm afraid you'll leave again, so no more alien prisoners, and, no more subterranean excavation without consulting us. ...Okay? Y-y-y-y-Okay like you're gonna quietly teleport somewhere and never come back?  Dads? What’s going on? What did the booger version of you mean when he said he was going to make the whole world toxic? Dad! Okay. Dad? Where are the kids? Not panicked. At all. Thanks, everybody, for sitting down for a real dinner. Uh, okay, weirdo.  How's school, Morty? "Quote mode". I like that. You millennials. Are you guys millennials, or are they like 40 now? I don't know why I'm crying. It's not -- I have to call Jerry. Downbeat! Guys, come on. We never get to finish this game. What the fuck? What the hell just happened? We're not gonna finish playing Downbeat? Sure. Morty, are you okay? Yeah. Hey, who wants to go run in a stream? You two are hungry. Sweetie, don't get all worked up before your job interview. No! Dad? What's wrong? Yeah, dad. Different h-ow? Jerry– Decoy family? Decoy family? You made more clones? Do you just get hard creating sentient life? Yeah, now everyone gets killer doppelgängers. Cool deal. Dad! Fuck off. Kind of expected a funnier password. So you do know what a happy family looks like. You said decoys didn't make decoys. Terminate? They're alive, dad! No, but I can resist making more of them in a lab. I thought you made them harmless. Why are we hiding? But we're not decoys! We can work this out, just stop trying to kill each other! Well, you could've done something. Well, how do we stop it? Nobody's terminating anything. This is your mess, nobody else with our face and memories has to die. You're helping us fix this. We're taking out the squids. Which we won't.  Oh my god! You are, aren't you? You're worried you might be fake! Just glad you have to walk a mile in someone else's squid costumes. Dad! Oh, maybe now you'll empathize with the decoys you're killing! You know what? You're a monster. Why are you helping us? How long before the other decoys find us? I'm just glad we're living to the fullest with the time we have left. Well, maybe their Rick came to grips with his bullshit! You keep putting us in danger! I'm here, too.  Decoy family?