 I see there's a new episode of that singing show tonight. Who do you guys think is gonna be the best singer? What? Damn it! Beth! Okay, with all due respect, Rick— what am I talking about? What respect is due? How is my son supposed to pass his classes if you keep dragging him off for high-concept Sci-Fi rigamarole? What? For real? Knock, knock. My manager gave me an hour for lunch, and I thought, "hey, why not swing by where your wife works?" Well, it's lunch. I mean, it's one of three meals that have existed for millennia. Well, yeah, on horses. Okay, Let's not rehash that fight. I sense that you're busy and will now be on my way. Whoa! What is this on the floor? Some kind of literature for a really nice-looking nursing home. Hey, honey, crazy idea bad pitch let's put your dad here. Let's put your dad in a nursing home. I told you I was ordering you something for Valentine's Day. More importantly, your father is a horrible influence on our son. Since we're fighting, if you ever have an affair with that guy, I will come to the hotel room and blow my brains out all over your naked bodies. Well, maybe you're right. Ahem, Horse heart surgeon. Boom! Told you! In your face! He is ruining our child! Wait, what am I celebrating? Oh, look, honey. It's our son with Albert Ein-douche. I'm an angry father, not an improviser. You're beyond our reasoning! Well, now you can build baskets and watch Paul Newman movies on VHS and mentally scar the Boy Scouts every Christmas. It's personal. Morty, stay out of this. You are obviously not capable of judging these situations on your own. Oh, for crying out—he's got some kind of disability or something. Is that what you want us to say? Well, duh doy, son. Look, I love you, Morty, but we both know you're not as fast as the other kids, and if you want to compete in this world, you got to work twice as hard. Holy crap. He's right. But— No, I-I understand. Uh, maybe we overreacted. But he has to keep going to school. Okay. Well, uh, Morty, it's your bedtime in an hour. Don't stay up all night again. This is good, though. This can work. I think we can be a family and now, Beth, if you'll have me, I would love to have you. What? Why are you looking at me? You want to go outside? Outside? Outside? Are you kidding me?! Come on! Your idiot dog! Don't praise him now, Morty! He just peed on the carpet! Bad dog! Bad! Hey, wait, hold on a second, Rick. You wouldn't by any chance have some sort of crazy science thing you could whip up that might help make this dog a little smarter, would you? Listen, Rick, if you're gonna stay here rent-free and use my son for your stupid science, the least you could do is put a little bit of it to use for the family. You make that dog smart or Morty's grounded! Holy crap! Now bring me my slippers. This is what I'm talking about. This is a dog. You said the same thing, equally sarcastically, at our wedding and guess what? Aw, he's saying "I love lasagna". I should call Bob Saget. Is that still a thing? Whoa! Hey, buddy. What you got going on there? Okay, yeah. I get what Beth was talking about. Fun's over. Why not? Hey. Oh, wow. Okay, is is is everything okay in here? Snuffles, we didn't mean you any harm! This is a huge misunderstanding. Well, I'm not calling him that. That's ridiculous. Huh! You think you can control me with a haircut? I can't believe how mean snuffles got just because he's smart. Whoa, whoa, whoa. We're not going anywhere. This is my house. I'm not abandoning it. Wait a minute. I have an idea. Gentlemen, a moment of your time.  See that? I'm peeing all over your special guns. That means I own them. I'm sorry. It's just like the end of "Old Yeller. Eh, Try not to worry about it, Morty. You're a good kid, and there's not a premium on that right now, but you'll be getting girls sometime after Brad's out of shape. Ahhh, well,  I remember feeling that way about a young lady named your mom, and that's not an urban dis, your mom was my Jessica. I remember the first time I saw her, I thought... I beg your pardon, Rick, INAPPROPRIATE. My marriage is fine, thank you. Yeah, I'm just going to...check on your mom. Beth, do you still love me? The "yes" or "no" kind. Yess. Noo. Wait, iii... is loving me the house or the homeless people? Sort of. This late? She's gonna be alone with that guy all night. ...A THING OR TWO ABOUT... wait, what? Was the house...? When we pulled up I could have sworn the house was completely trashed. This better not be a bribe. If I find a single thing out of place in this house, my love of ice cream won't save you. I'll get my jacket. Yeah, I like it this way. I'm not stupid. Cold Stone Creamery is the best. What should we do with our remaining twenty dollars? I hit a deer! W-we have to tell the cops you were driving. This is Rum Raisin! Well, do we- do I uh, get a big rock? Or-- I thought that's what a man's supposed to say, it's not like I could have actually done it. It's okay, this is just something that happens. And even if we were in a hospital, what could we do, you're a horse surgeon, not a deer surgeon. Well don't different animals- Oh God... Yes Beth. Uh, yeah, I was there, you don't have to rub it in. She normally works on horses. Honey, it's gonna be okay. These men are from the Cervine Institute of Elk, Moose Deer and Stag. They can take this deer to a helicopter and fly it to the country's top deer surgeon on a wildlife reserve across the state border, where your jurisdiction ends. We did it... Look, I know I was kind of a nuisance today. I know it's my fault we hit the deer, and I know you wanted to be the one to save it. Hmm... you'd have to be pretty petty. But you'd still be the woman I married. One last stop. There is no helicopter and there is no Cervine Institute. I'm looking at her. Thanks for F.D.'ing me up like that. Thanks to Cold Stone Creamery. Um, hold the phone, where did you guys get those necklaces from? Uh, Lady Gaga, table for three, am I right? Are you guys Power Rangers? But only on one small part of your necks? Hey, do those things need batteries? Were they included? Clean up in the fruit isle! Not in a homophobic way though, they're just fruity necklaces is all I was saying. Somebody call the planet of Tron, we have three Tron people over here. But seriously, are these Halloween costumes? Are you going as motorcycles? With green headlights instead of normal ones? Are you dogs? Robot dogs? Gosh, you guys are lame. Are those chokers from the 90's? What is this, a 90's nostalgia thing? Are you guys in that movie “The Craft” with Fairuza Balk? The trick to cereal is keeping 70% of it above the milk. She’s allowed to think it’s God if she wants, honey! Ok… I think it’s inspiring that our community is coping with fear in a way that involves a festival and homemade ice cream. If you’d stop being such an evangelical atheist, you might start enjoying yourself. Whoa! Look at you! You’re wearing the hat and everything! Sure! Let’s go to the Ascension. Wh-wh-what is it? Yeah. She’s aced every test in potato class, and look how important potatoes have become. We’re so proud of you. But honestly, you don’t have to make dinner every night. You… would? Thank you. This is all so overwhelming, but, uh… we can’t. We’ll take our chances raising her without fancy new jobs outside of a potato-based religion.  And you know what? I’m sick of pretending that we’re together because of the kids in the first place! I married you because you’re the love of my life! Summer, listen carefully. I stole a paper clip and I have it in my cheek but I don’t know what to do with it and it hurts. I AM a baby! I’m a baby NOW! Yeah, it’s possible that we may have been correlating some things that weren’t actually related at all. Where am I? My goodness. I see-WAIT! What? Yeah, but, I mean- Alright! That's enough. You're talking about my species! We understand genocide, we do it sometimes! Yes I will! That's right, assholes, take my penis, TAKE IT ALL! And tell Shrimply Pimples that when the galaxy came calling Jerry Smith from Earth didn't flinch! Got it. Oh, you know what, I gotta laugh at myself here! I'm having a little laugh at myself because I just realized I haven't run this whole decision past my wife. Oh, absolutely. Beth is automatically on board, always, with every decision I make. Hi, honey, so, here's the thing-these guys-they want to completely remove my penis and use it as an alien's heart, and we just need you to sign off on it. Uh-oh, maybe we have a problem here after all guys. Yikes. Sheesh, well, there you go. Sorry. I know it's hard to understand but on Earth, love comes first. Uh, well, Beth, I don't think your decision should be based on politics. Who could argue with a wife's decision to keep her LOVER INTACT. Beth, can we talk about this privately? But, Beth, what kind of man would say something like that if the universe needed his penis!?! Yeah, but you just got out of prison. I mean, how much of a step up from that is -- You got it. I tell ya, the Galactic Federation taking over Earth -- best thing that's ever happened to this family. I just got my sixth promotion this week, and I still don't know what I do. Well, when you're not sure what you do for a living, you can make your own rules. You spoil us, Conroy. Willem Dafoe! Th-That's the guy I couldn't think of this morning. Ooh! The galactic government collapsed. Look, I-I'm not proud to share this, but the truth is, I just kept crawling, and it kept working.  Oh, I'm glad you're okay. Are we ever going to stop paying for indulging your father? Our children, our planet, our jobs? Is there anything left to lose? Um..okay. No. No, no, no. Foot down time. Beth, it's him or me! Steve, I just got a weird e-mail. Did you buy us airline tickets? Rick, I don't like glowing rocks in the kitchen trash. I, you know what, I- My goofy brother Steve. He's been living here almost a year now, are you losing your mind? But I've known him my whole life! I know. Friends make youstrong. I watched the same musical you did. Nicky!  Well, of course it happened. You know they won't come here anymore.  Okay, look, we shouldn't need evidence or logic to know who's family and who isn't. I know who the Smiths are. I've known Beth since high school. And her husband, Sleepy Gary, is hands down my absolute best friend. Sleepy Gary, a word? Sleepy Gary, m-my head is filled with memories of our friendship. I'm convinced that you're Beth's husband and I'm your friend, but if those memories can't be trusted, then... Sleepy Gary, how do we know I'm real? Sure. Why not? I'd like that. What are we doing? Okay. Hey, we agreed. Never in the house. You got to hide me, Sleepy Gary. No. No! Send me to Gary. I want to be with Gary. Look out for that homeless guy! There isn't time! Just run! They say you shouldn't do that! Just run!  I'm a parasite! Me, too. This is depressing. We killed every good person in the house. We're what's left? What a family. I need an ambulance! There's been a shooting. My wife shot... Uh, my -- my wife shot a long-time family friend. Morty, who’s at the door? Just like his old man. Should be making us a whole restaurant. Hey! What the heck? Wait, no! -give you anything! I have a rare antique coin collection, just don’t hurt me!  Okay, maybe not antique, but it was a limited minting. They have little R2D2s instead of George Washingtons. You hate me for buying those coins! Uh, hello? Rick! Heyy. Haha, what’s- what’s up? What? Rick, no! Mortyyyy! Ugh. Leave me alone, I’m working! Ugh. I’m- I’m in between advertising jobs. W-well, it’s a little more complicated than that…  Dude, are you… wh- you’re being a dick, right? You’re really a Rick? Hey, he looks a lot like Eric Stoltz from the movie ‘Mask.’ You know, the one with Cher in it? According to who? Other versions of you? If I’ve learned one thing, it’s that before you get anywhere in life, you gotta stop listening to yourself. The fact that you feel that way makes you the best Rick of them all. It’s incredible what a gifted mind can accomplish when priorities are in order! Hey, uh. C’mere, uh. I-I wanna show you something. Okay, look. Everybody makes fun of me for getting these, but… you’re a genius scientist, what do you think? There’s little R2D2s where the George Washingtons should be!  How long are you staying?  I found mine. I found mine. W-w-well, does it have to? Heh, you, you look just like Rick. We could maybe… you know… get rid of him? I’m not saying kill him, necessarily, I-I’m also not saying necessarily not kill him, but- Nothing! I was just, um, checking the smoke detectors. She’s allowed to think it’s God if she wants, honey! Ok… I think it’s inspiring that our community is coping with fear in a way that involves a festival and homemade ice cream. If you’d stop being such an evangelical atheist, you might start enjoying yourself. Whoa! Look at you! You’re wearing the hat and everything! Sure! Let’s go to the Ascension. Wh-wh-what is it? Yeah. She’s aced every test in potato class, and look how important potatoes have become. We’re so proud of you. But honestly, you don’t have to make dinner every night. You… would? Thank you. This is all so overwhelming, but, uh… we can’t. We’ll take our chances raising her without fancy new jobs outside of a potato-based religion.  And you know what? I’m sick of pretending that we’re together because of the kids in the first place! I married you because you’re the love of my life! Summer, listen carefully. I stole a paper clip and I have it in my cheek but I don’t know what to do with it and it hurts. I AM a baby! I’m a baby NOW! Yeah, it’s possible that we may have been correlating some things that weren’t actually related at all.