 Morty! You gotta come on. Jus'... you gotta come with me. I got a surprise for you, Morty. Come on, I got a surprise for you.  Come on, hurry up. We gotta go, gotta get outta here, come on. Got a surprise for you Morty. What do you think of this... flying vehicle, Morty? I built it outta stuff I found in the garage. Morty. I had to... I had to do it. I had— I had to— I had to make a bomb, Morty. I had to create a bomb. We're gonna drop it down there just get a whole fresh start, Morty. Create a whole fresh start. Come on, Morty. Just take it easy, Morty. It's gonna be good. Right now, we're gonna go pick up your little friend Jessica. When I drop the bomb you know, I want you to have somebody, you know? I want you to have the thing. I'm gonna make it like a new Adam and Eve, and you're gonna be Adam. And Jessica's gonna be Eve. And so that's the surprise, Morty. I-I get what you're trying to say, Morty. Listen, I'm not...  You don't got... Y-you don’t gotta worry about me trying to fool around with Jessica or mess around with Jessica or anything. I'm not that kind of guy, Morty. You-you don't have to worry about me getting with Jessica or anything. Sh-sh-she— she, she, she's all for you, Morty. You know what, Morty? You're right.  Let's forget the girl altogether. She, she's probably nothing but trouble, anyways. Get off of me, Morty! Come on! What’s gotten into you? If you love Earth so much why don’t you marry it?  What are you, crazy? Alright, alright, Morty. Alright. I'll-I'll land. I'll land. I'll land. I'll land the thing. I’ll land the thing. Big tough guy all of a sudden. We'll park it right here, Morty. Right here on the side of the ree... road here. You know what? That was all a test, Morty. Just an elaborate test to make you more assertive. Sure. Why not? I don’t, I don't know. Y-you know what, Mo— What, so everyone's supposed to sleep every single night now? You realize that nighttime makes up half of all time? Mm, there is no God, Summer. You gotta rip that band-aid off now. You'll thank me later. Listen, Jerry. I-I-I don't want to overstep my bounds or anything. It's your house. It's your world. You're a real Julius Caesar but I'll tell you something—tell you how I feel about school, Jerry. It's a waste of time.  Buncha people running around, bumping into each other. G-guy up front says, "two plus two." The people in the back say, "four." Then the—then the bell rings, and they give you a carton of milk and a piece of paper that says you can go take a dump or something. I mean, it's not a place for smart people, Jerry. And I know that's not a popular opinion, but it's my two cents on the issue.  This was a good breakfast, Beth. You really made the crap out of those eggs. I wish your mother was here to eat them. There you are, Morty. Listen to me. I got an errand to run in a whole different dimension. I need an extra pair of hands. It's pretty obvious, Morty. I froze him. Now listen I need your help, Morty. I mean, we got we got to get get the hell out of here and go take care of business.  It's important. Come on, Morty. Do you have any concept of how much higher the stakes get out there, Morty? What do you think I can just do it all by myself? Come on! I'll do it later, Morty. He'll be fine. Let's go. There she is. All right. Come on, Morty. Let's go. It's Dimension 35-C, and it's got the perfect climate conditions for a special type of tree, Morty, called a Mega Tree, and there's fruit in those trees, and there's seeds in those fruits. I'm talking about Mega Seeds. They're they're incredibly powerful, and I need them to help me with my research, Morty. All right, all right, calm down. Listen to me, Morty. I know that new situations can be intimidating. You're looking around, and it's all scary and different, but, you know, m-meeting them head on, charging right into them like a bull that's how we grow as people. I'm no stranger to scary situations. I deal with them all the time. Now, if you just stick with me, Morty, we're gonna be— HOLY CRAP, MORTY RUN!!! I never seen that thing before in my life. I don't even know what the hell it is! We got to get out of here, Morty! It's gonna kill us! We're gonna die! We're gonna die, Morty! Oh, Morty, take a deep breath. Breathe that breathe that fresh air in, Morty. Y-you smell that? That's the smell of adventure, Morty. That's that's the smell of-of-of-of a whole different evolutionary timeline. Are you joking me? I mean, look at all the crazy crap surrounding us. Look at that thing right there.  What the hell is that thing? You think you're gonna see that kind of thing at school?  Look at it just lumbering around.  It defies all logic, that thing. Ta-ta-ta-ta-ta-ta. Morty, you see this? You see what we just stumbled upon, Morty? Any idea what that is down there? That's right, Morty the mega trees with the mega fruit on them and that's what I'm talking about, Morty. That's where my seeds are. If we would have done what you wanted, I would have never have found them, because you're so in love with school. You ask a lot of questions, Morty. Not very charismatic. It makes you kind of an  under-  underfoot figure. Just take these shoes, Morty. They're  special grappling shoes. When you're wearing these things, these babies, you can basically just walk on any surface you want, Morty up, down, below, turn around to the left. These things really bring it all together. You have to turn them on, Morty! The shoes have to be turned on! Morty, oh, you really d-did a number on  your legs right now. You know, you got to turn  the shoes on, Morty, for them to work. Yeah, look I turned mine on. I had no problem getting down here. It was a leisurely breeze. Yeah, I can see that. But do you think you'll still be able to help me collect my seeds, Morty? Okay, hold on just a second, Morty. Don't worry about it, Morty. Just come help me get these seeds, all right, buddy? Not that you asked, Morty, but what just happened there is I went into a future dimension with such advanced medicine that they had broken-leg serum at every corner drugstore.  The stuff was all over the place, Morty. There's just one problem, Morty one little hang-up. The dimension I visited was so advanced, that  they had also halted the aging process, and everyone there was young, Morty, and they had been forever. I was the only old person there, Morty.  It was like I was some sort of, you know, celebrity, walking around. I-I was fascinating to them. There were a lot of attractive women there, Morty, and they-they-they— they all wanted time with me. I had a lot of fun with a lot of young ladies, but I spent so much time there, my interdimensional portal device it's got no charge left, Morty. It's got no charge left. It's as good as garbage, Morty. It's not gonna work anymore, Morty. There's ways to get back home, Morty. It's just it's just gonna be a little bit of a hassle. We're gonna have to go through interdimensional customs, so you're gonna have to do me a real solid. When we get to customs, I'm gonna need you to take these seeds into the bathroom, and I'm gonna need you to put them way up inside your butthole, Morty. Put them way up inside there, as far as they can fit. Well, somebody's got to do it, Morty. Th-these seeds aren't gonna get through customs unless they're in someone's rectum, Morty And they'll fall right out of mine. I've done this too many times, Morty. I mean, you're young. Y-y-you've got your whole life ahead of you, and your anal cavity is still taut, yet malleable. You got to do it for grandpa, Morty. Y-  you've got to put these seeds inside your butt. Come on, Morty. Please, Morty. You have to do it, Morty. I don't like it here, Morty. I can't abide bureaucracy. I don't like being told where to go and what to do. I consider it a violation. Did you get those seeds all the way up your butt? That means they're good ones. You're a good kid, Morty. Those mega seeds are super valuable to my work. You've been a huge help to me. I'm gonna be able to do a- Why does he have to go over there? What new-  what new machine? Run, Morty! Run! Don't think about it! Ooh! Oh, nice, Morty! The student becomes the teacher. I need to type in the coordinates to our home world, Morty. Cover me. They're just robots, Morty! It's okay to shoot them! They're robots! It's a figure of speech, Morty. They're bureaucrats. I don't respect them. Just keep shooting, Morty. You have no idea what prison is like here! Come on, Morty! We got to get the hell out of here! You can get his number later. Come on, Morty. We got to get out of here. You got to get those seeds out of your ass. Oh, hi, Jerry. Oh, my goodness, Morty! What are you doing out of class? We talked about this. Your-your parents and I are very disappointed in-in this behavior... No? No takers? You guys should really not be touching that stuff. It's beyond your reasoning. Takes one to know one. What what are you guys doing with my stuff? A nursing home? What are what are you, nuts? I'm a genius. I build robots for fun. What are you trying to say about Morty? That he's stupid or something? I-I-I don't know what you mean by that. Can can can you be a little bit more specific? Morty, t-tell your parents the square root of pi. The square root of Pi, Morty. Go! Morty, tell your parents the first law of Thermodynamics. I told the both of you school is stupid. It's not how you learn things. Morty's a gifted child. He has a special mind. That's why he's my little helper. He's like me. He's gonna be doing great science stuff later in his life. He's too smart for school. He needs to keep hanging out and helping me. Okay, Jerry. You drive a hard bargain, but what am I supposed to do? Say no? You-you really wear the pants around here. I just want you to know, between us, from now on, it's gonna be clear communication. No idea what you're talking about. Full disclosure, Morty it's not. Temporary superintelligence is just a side effect of the mega seeds dissolving in your rectal cavity. Yeah, and once those seeds wear off, you're gonna lose most of your motor skills, and you're also gonna lose a significant amount of brain functionality for 72 hours, Morty. I'm sorry, Morty. It's a bummer. In reality, you're as dumb as they come and I needed those seeds real bad, and I had to give them up just to get your parents off my back, so now we're gonna have to go get more adventures.  And then we're gonna go on even more adventures after that, Morty and you're gonna keep your mouth shut about it, Morty, because the world is full of idiots that don't understand what's important, and they'll tear us apart, Morty but if you stick with me, I'm gonna accomplish great things, Morty, and you're gonna be part of them, and together, we're gonna run around, Morty. We're gonna do all kinds of wonderful things, Morty. Just you and me, Morty. The outside world is our enemy, Morty. We're the only friends we've got, Morty. It's just Rick and Morty. Rick and Morty and their adventures, Morty. Rick and Morty forever and forever. Morty's things. Me and Rick and Morty running around, and Rick and Morty time. All day long, forever. All a hundred days. Rick and Morty forever 100 times. Over and over, rickandmortyadventures.com. All 100 years. Every minute, rickandmorty.com. Morty, come on. I need your help tonight. I thought the whole point of having a dog was to feel superior, Jerry. If I were you, I wouldn't pull that thread. Come on, Morty. Boy, you really got me up against a wall this time, Jerry. All right, Ruffles What's his name? Snuffles, shake. Roll over. Go to the bathroom. Yeah, you're at the top of your game now, Jerry. Have fun. Come on, Morty. Yeah, Morty, if you like that, boy, you're you're really going to flip your lid over this one. It's a device, Morty, that when you put it in your ear, you can enter people's dreams, Morty. It's just like that movie that you keep crowing about. That's right, Morty. This is gonna be a lot like that, except, you know, it's gonna may--be make sense. You don't have to try to impress me, Morty. Listen, tonight we're gonna go into the home of your math teacher, Mr. Goldenfold, and we're gonna incept the idea in his brain to give you A's in math, Morty. That way you can, you know, y-you're gonna help me with my science, Morty, all the time. Are you listening to me, Morty? Homework is stupid. The whole point is to get less of it. Come on, let's just get over there and deal with this thing. W-we're gonna incept your teacher. You're frustrating me. Uh-oh! Spoilers! I'm a full season behind. It's about to get a whole lot weirder, Morty. All right, Morty, time to make our move. Allahu  akbar! We're gonna take control of this plane! We're gonna 9/11 it unless Morty Smith gets better grades in math! Hey! I said nobody move, buddy! Take cover, Morty! Goldenfold's got more control here than I anticipated. I mean, the guy teaches high-school math.  I didn't take him for an active dreamer. We've got to take him out so he wakes up, Morty but we can't get killed. If you get killed in someone else's dream, you die for real, Morty. Don't be a baby! You avoid getting shot in real life all the time, Morty. Just do the same thing here, and we'll be fine! Goldenfold, we're coming out! We just want to talk! Because we're both rational adults that don't want anything bad to happen. And because I have a human shield. Oh, no, Morty. His subconscious is panicking. Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoooooaaaa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoooooaaaa! Relax, Morty. Look! Mrs. Pancakes has a parachute. Come on! Pretty concise, Morty. Looks like we've merely prolonged the inevitable. That's it, Morty! Prolonging the inevitable! Listen, if we go into Mrs. Pancakes' dream, everything will go 100 times slower, Morty. That'll buy us some time to figure this out! All right, let's go. Don't judge, Morty. Whoa, whoa, Morty, the trick to incepting is making people think they came up with the idea. Listen to me. If we're gonna incept Mrs. Pancakes, we have to blend. I'll talk to you after lunch. Whoa, whoa, whoa! What's the matter with you, Morty? Calm down! You're kind of killing the vibe in here. Time to go another dream deep, Morty! Geez, I don't know, Morty. Wha-what do you want from me? Oh, here we go! Looks like some sort of legally safe knock-off of an '80s horror character with miniature swords for fingers instead of knives. Holy crap! We have to escape into someone else's dreams, Morty! The little girl! Are you kidding me? This again? Oh, man, it looks like we've hit dream bedrock here, Morty. Holy crap, Morty. He can travel through dreams. He can travel through dreams! We're so screwed! What are we here for again? Incepting? We're trying to incept- Oh, yeah. Hold on, Morty. Y-you know what? He keeps saying we can run but we can hide. I say we try hiding. Yeah, well, since when are we taking this guy's advice on anything? Worst-case scenario we're back to running. Thanks, Morty. Yeah, it's nice to be on the same page every once in a while. Oh, this is perfect, Morty. Look at that. He's getting sleepy. Just a little bit longer before he calls it a day. That's when we make our move. Morty, this is perfect. After a little scary coitus, they should be fast asleep and then we'll incept him. Looks like scary Terry's having a nightmare. Yeah, this is a bunch of bullcrap. Who cares what stupid pun you make when you kill someone? Why don't you let the poor guy say whatever he wants? You're putting too much pressure on yourself, scary Terry. You know, I mean, y-you're perfectly scary enough as it is. You're our boy, dawg. Don't even trip. As a matter of fact, Terry, there is something you could help us with. Out of the frying pan dot, dot, dot, huh, Morty? Well, it's possible that your dog became self-aware and made modifications on the cognition amplifier, then turned on Jerry, Beth, and Summer after learning about humanity's cruel subjugation of his species, but your guess is as good as mine, Morty. Psst, Beth, Jerry, Summer. If we hurry we can set up camp in a sewer tunnel or something before the dogs completely take over. It's all over, Jerry. The dogs are on a path to total world domination. But, hey, at least they know not to piss on your carpet, right? Ooh, great plan, Jerry. No, no, no, I was just playing dead. Good news, though, Morty. This whole thing's gonna be over really soon. It's a dream, Morty. We're in your dog's dream. The night the dogs captured us, after you cried and crapped your pants, we all went to sleep. Then I used my dream inceptors to put the two of us inside snuffles' dream. It's been six hours. Dreams move one one-hundredth the speed of reality, and dog time is one-seventh human time. So, you know, every day here is like a minute. It's like "Inception," Morty, so if it's confusing and stupid, then so is everyone's favorite movie. No, no, that happened before you went to sleep, Morty. You're sleeping in your crap right now. Out of all the things that happened to you, that was the only real thing that, you know, is that you crapped your pants. I mean, it's a mess out there. I got some on my hands, Morty, and then I got it on the dream inceptor, and a piece fell in my mouth. Look, d-d-d-don't worry about it, Morty. Here, here take these, Morty. Take these. Close. It's gonna make your kidneys shut down. It's necessary for the plan, Morty. Don't even trip, dawg. I think it will be great, Morty. You know it could be developed in-into a very satisfying project for people of all ages. I mean, I'd watch it, Morty, for at least 11 minutes a pop. You know, may-maybe they'll do it board-driven. What do you know, Morty? What do you know? Oooh! This is how you dream, bitch. I should get her pregnant, then she'll have to marry me. Sorry, please proceed with your story about banging my daughter in high school.  I'm not sure you want to take romantic advice from this guy, Morty, his marriage is hanging from a thread. Jerry, it's your house, whatever you say it is is how it is,  but I think a blind man could see that Beth is looking for the door. I barely have a reason to care and even I noticed. Listen, Morty, I hate to break it to you, but what people call "love" is a chemical reaction that compels animals to breed. It hits hard, Morty, then it slowly fades, leaving you stranded in a failing marriage. I did it, your parents are gonna do it. Break the cycle, Morty. Rise above. Focus on science. Morty, hand me that screwdriver, huh?  I'm almost finished making my ionic defibulizer, Morty. It's gonna be great. Morty, that's such a poor use of my time, it's beneath me. Hand me the screwdriver. You're growing up fast, Morty. You're growing into a real big thorn straight up into my ass!  Listen, this is called oxytocin. I extracted it from a vole. You know what a VOLE is, Morty, you know what a vole is? It's a, it's a rodent that mates for life, Morty. This is the chemical release in the mammal's brain,  ...that makes it fall in love. Alright Morty, I just gotta  combine it with some of your DNA. A hair, Morty, I need one of your hairs! This isn't Game Of Thrones. Alright, Morty, whoever you smear this stuff on will fall in love with you, and only you, forever. Ya happy now, Morty? Www.. what am I, a hack?! Go nuts, Morty, it's full proof. Ugh, unless she has the flu. Who cares about the  thing you guys are talking about? The whole point of freezing time is to stop giving a fuck. Put a shirt on your dumb dad and let's get this dumb universe rolling. Let's do this thing. Alright, listen, you two, we froze time for a pretty long time, so when I unfreeze it, the world's time is gonna be fine, but our time's gonna need a little time to, you know, stabilize. It means relax and stop being a pussy, Morty. I thought you learned that by now. It also means don't touch your parents or we could shatter into countless theoretical shards. And away we go! Shhh, Morty! Negative visualization, Jerry. It explains a lot about where you're at. Hi, sweety. Yeah it would literally destroy them. Now listen, why do—why do—why—why don't you guys go get a free sunday ice cream,  go out there and get some ice creams. Here's five hundred dollars cash in unmarked moneys. I'm just gonna put it on the floor and uh, kick it on over to ya. You guys go nuts. Uh oh. Man that guy is the Red Grin Grumble to pretending he knows what's going on.  Oh you agree, huh?  You like that Red Grin Grumble reference?  Well guess what? I made him up. You really are your father's children. Think for yourselves, don't be sheep. Yup, it really makes you appreciate how fickle the universe can be.   One minute you're falling off a roof for six months, the next minute, bam! Actually, sorry Summer, I gotta back the M bomb on this one. I remember the conversation. We told Morty to replace all the bank's money with cookies, your job was to put the mattress under Mr. Benson. Whoa whoa wh-what the hell hell hell hell hell? Were either of you guys uncertain about anything just now? Huh, what do you know, it's working Oh shit. Yes, we're back, problem solved. How long exactly do we have to wear these things? They're really embarassing. I would have been happy to pay for it, Summer, but they don't exactly sell them at Costco. Besides, there's a larger lesson to be learned here. Get him! What if I told you there's a huge ticket up right behind you? Alright, hear me out on this. You're immortal, right, which means your life is infinite. Well in that case there's 100% chance that you'll eventually do everything, including turning around to look behind you. Ah, God, gross and weird! Summer, Morty, take off your collars! Good question. I suppose the answer is You know what I'm talking about, oh yeah. I'm gonna do the cabbage patch, Morty. Check me out I'm doing the cabbage patch dance. It's a classic dance, remember, like this. Oh shit look at that. Yeah. Shut up, Morty. The last time you felt something, we all almost died. You little s—piece of shit. No it doesn't. It hurts. Uh, w-why don't you get it Jerry? you're the man of the house and you don't have a job. Ughhhh... belchflies towards front doorTurning back around and re-entering dining roomScoffsHovers over Jerry and fully shoves him into underside before flying away through open front door and into skyRuns to front doorFollow BethLooking into skyStill eating cerealUnscrewing and drinking from scotch flaskMorty waveskissing Beth's handHolding a suit in a dry cleaning bag* Your language has 'squanch,' in it a lot. Doesn't that become tedious and worn out like the Smurf thing? Beth, Squanchy culture is more... contextual than literal. You just say what's in your squanch and people understand. Oh boy. Time to go, Morty. The Pentagon. I mean, not THE Pentagon.  The lame one, here on Earth. Morty and I are going to look into it. You guys hold tight. Stay back! This watch turns people into snakes! My name is Rick Sanchez. This here’s my grandson Morty. I’ve seen enough of the galaxy to know that what we’ve got here is a Cromulon from the Cygnus-5 Expanse. So you can forget about nukes, and you can forget about math.  This head won’t go away until  Earth shows them it’s got a hit song. No, Frasier. A live performance of a newly-written, catchy, original song. The Cromulon feed on the talent and showmanship of less-evolved lifeforms. You’re gonna wanna put them on that giant speaker system at your sonic testing facility at Area 51. Good luck, Mr. President. I dabble, Mr. President. Who’s NOT a musician, Morty? Yeah, not with that attitude. All right, Morty, let’s get ready to do it! Why don’t you, uh, find a button on one of those keyboards and lay down some kind of beat? Morty! Good music comes from people who are relaxed. Just hit a button, Morty! Gimme a beat! Ahhhhh yeahhhhh Ya gotta get schwifty  Ya gotta get schwifty in here It’s time to get schwifty Take off your pants and your panties Shit on the floor Time to get schwifty in here I’m Mr. Bulldops Take a shit on the floor Time to get schwifty in here Hey, take your pants off It’s schwifty time today I think planet Earth has just been transported. Uhh, it’s probably a bad time to mention it, but any astronauts you guys had in orbit are definitely dead. Geez, Morty. The guy’s just doing his job. Take it easy. Genius happens in the moment, Morty. That’s planning for failure, Morty. Even dumber than regular planning.  Balls. Morty, Morty, stop! Listen! There’s only so much charge left in this thing. If we portal home from here and back, we’re not gonna have enough charge left to get off-world. Get it? Yeah,  you see, I try to shelter you from certain realities,  Morty. Cause if I let you make me nervous, then we can’t get schwifty. Hey, Morty! Could you lick my… Wait, wait, wait! Come on, h-hold on a second! Whoa, whoa! Morty! Give me that! Morty, just put it down. You don’t know what you’re doing. Nooooo! Ahhhh, shit! Wh-What do you think, Ice? Probably a little over-developed. Well, do you think maybe, could you give me some help with it, or… ? Ice, I don’t want to be a negative Nelly or anything, but  if Morty doesn’t come back with my portal gun and I eat it out there, it’s, uh, kind of your problem too. What? Why not? What the fuck? You can turn into ice? Take it from me, Ice.  You can’t just  float around space not caring about stuff forever. Ahem.  Uhhh… lop-oo-lop-oo-lop-oo-dups, nop-oo-nop-oo-nop-oo-nuts. Nup-oo-nup-oo-nup-oo-nups… ooh, tough crowd. Morty! I say…  Let’s do it! All right! Come on, here we go! Say it with me! Trade secret, Mr. President. Particle beam in a wristwatch… snake holster on the leg. Don't worry about Jerry. He's gonna be fine.You hear me Jerry? You're gonna be fine! ooo... Watch out for that stuff. It'll stain if it gets on your clothes, and it'll send into a murderous rage if it gets in your eyes or mouth. I know this isn't the time, but, you know, technically the second freezer drawer is mine. You're overreacting! Alright fine, but you're not touching my CRISPR. What? Every hospital claims to have the best doctor in the galaxy. It's like those pizza places that claim to have the best pizza in the world. What- Do you think they have pizza contests? Have you ever been to a pizza contest? Fine!  Excuse me. Coming through. What are you here for- Just kidding, I don't care. Well this won't do. A sequel. Yeah me neither, we pretty much nailed it the first time. You gotta be careful Morty, if that guy catches you with a box of his eye-holes he comes bursting in through a window and just starts kicking the shit outta you. But it's worth the risk, they melt in your mouth Morty! They're delicious. Well you're thirty-nine years too late, or however old he is. Is he fifty? Oh man, Beth is, is Jerry fifity!? Hey, what's wrong Morty? Oh, you're worried about your dad, huh? Morty let's-let's see what else is on. Oh, man Morty. How DID she get there? Just stay away from the coffee machine. Oh man, I'm trying to remember Morty. Nope. That's Jan-Michaels. All right, Morty you've done it! Anyway, that's how I escaped from space prison! Oh, scary place. Oh, come on. Who wants to watch a mad scientist use handmade sci-fi tools to take out highly trained alien guards when we can sit here and be a family at Shoney's? Emotionally speaking, honey, Shoney's is my home. Jerry, get out of the booth, take all your clothes off, and fold yourself 12 times. Six folds, huh? W-W-What, have you guys got me in a Series 9000? You cheap insect fucks didn't think I was worth your best equipment? Well, you might as well order some pancakes, because I don't see the need to leave this part of my brain. Shoney's. Relaxed enough? Oh, any particular ones? You want to see my first boner, or should we go straight to the moment I discovered interdimensional travel? ' Ooh, your little flappy doodles are twitching. Does that mean you're aroused, or did you just get a signal that one of your buddies found a grape? Yeah, well, tough titties. Well, that depends on who breaks first -- me or the titty. The day I invented the portal gun is the day I lost her. Fine, but I'm driving. To the day it all began and ended. The moment that changed everything. Yeah, I'd like to get a 10-piece McNugget and a bunch of the Szechuan sauce. Like, as much as you're allowed to give me. In 1998, they had this promotion for the Disney film "Mulan," where they -- where they -- they created a new sauce for the McNuggets called Szechuan sauce, and it's delicious! And then they got rid of it, and now it's gone. This is the only place we're gonna be able to try it, is in my memory. Okay. All right, all right. Me. I used to wear blue pants. I didn't. I did. Yeah. That's the three lines of math that separates my life as a man from my life as an unfeeling ghost. Nope, they cannot. Because the code you just uploaded wasn't actually my portal-gun formula, it was a virus giving me full control over the brainalyzer. True, but you can alter anything you want about a totally fabricated origin story. Mission accomplished, boys. Pull me out. Okay, have fun in what's left of my brain. I'm gonna transfer to yours. Oh, there's not enough room for all my genius, so I'm leaving you with my fear of wicker furniture, my desire to play the trumpet, my tentative plans to purchase a hat, and six years of improv workshops. Comedy comes in threes. Duh! Morty, take this. You're gonna need it later. What -- What's this supposed to accomplish? We have infinite grandkids. You're trying to use Disney bucks at a Caesar's Palace here. I came to kill you, bro. That's not even my original Summer. 20 yards, nine-gauge plasma pistol, My first shot would liquify her insides and injure you, second shot adds recoil. The risk to me is minimized if I wait for you to shoot her, which I'm encouraging you to do. Or let her go, which I will reward with a quicker death. Because it's incentive for you to give me my cleanest shot, which will be your least painful death. But if you want to die slower than that, I'm super into it. All you got to do to get that started is kill the girl. Not an issue, sweetie. Morty, I know you're too stupid to get this, but you're really fuckin' this up right now. I wasn't gonna let her die, you fuckin' moron! The point is he thought I was going to. You're a serious fuckin' idiot, Morty! You basically killed us all! You're the worst! You're as dumb as a bag of sand. Good job, Morty. Let's go, kids. Oldest Rick trick in the book. Not until I finish what I started. And that is how you get level-nine access without a password. Employee of the month, ladies and gentlemen. Destroying the  galactic government. Good pitches, kids. I'm almost proud. But watch closely as Grandpa topples an empire by changing a one to a zero. Guess who dismantled the government? I never will, baby. Jerry, is there any light beer left? It's insane what you miss in prison. No, you're right. Where's the vodka? Seems like you guys need some privacy. I'll, uh -- I'll be in the garage. What the fuck? Not cool, Jerry! A man's garage is his castle. Oh, I-I'm sorry to hear that, sweetie. I hope I had nothing to do with that. For everybody. Not so fast, Morty. You heard your mom. We've got adventures to go on, Morty -- just you and me -- and sometimes your sister and sometimes your mom, but never your dad. You want to know why, Morty? Because he crossed me. Oh, it gets darker, Morty. Welcome to the darkest year of our adventures. First thing that's different -- no more Dad, Morty. He threatened to turn me in to the government, so I made him and the government go away. I've replaced them both as the de facto patriarch of your family and your universe. Your mom wouldn't have accepted me if I came home - - without you and your sister, so now you know the real reason I rescued you. Oh! I just took over the family, Morty, and if you tell your mom - - or sister I said any of this, I'll deny it - - and they'll take my side because I'm a hero, Morty. And now you're gonna have to go - - and do whatever I say, Morty, forever! And I'll -- I'll go out and I'll find some more of that "Mulan" Szechuan teriyaki dipping sauce, Morty. - - Because that's -- that's what this is all about, Morty. That's my one-armed man! I'm not driven by avenging my dead family, Morty! That was fake. I-I-I'm driven by finding that McNugget sauce. I want that "Mulan" McNugget sauce, Morty! That's my series arc, Morty. If it takes nine seasons, I want my McNugget dipping sauce, Szechuan sauce, Morty. That's what's gonna take us all the way to the end, Morty. Season -- Nine more seasons, Morty. Nine more seasons until I get that dipping Szechuan sauce. For 97 more years, Morty! I want that McNugget sauce, Morty! Man, I missed having hands and blood and a stomach. Absolutely. Yeah, either one. Either one. You'll never get away with this, Concerto. This is it, Morty. We're goners. We're not getting out of this one. After everything we've been through, this is how we're gonna die. Make peace with your god. Jaguar! That, Morty, is why you don't go to therapy. Don't let any of those things get away, Morty. If their DNA gets into Earth's food chain, our entire species could be sterilized. Great. Next time I need a species sterilized, who's gonna do it for me? You? I refuse to answer a literal call to adventure, Morty. Let it go to voicemail! They're the writers of their own press releases, Morty! They're a bunch of drama queens that spend an hour talking and twenty minutes jumping around while shit blows up. They're a phase. We did one, it was the big event of that summer. Let it die. God... fuckin' dammit!  Fine! But don't say I didn't warn you. Whoops! Uh, Morty, you might want to freeze some sperm. My balls. Oh, that's Million Ants. I can't see the ants over here. It just assumed that was, uh, Turd Man. Wiggly Turd Man. Uh, yeah, just a few more design notes.  Um, this guy. The, uh... The, uh... Right, Crocubot. So, you're half-cold, unfeeling reptile, half-also cold, equally-unfeeling machine. So, you're origin is what? Y-You fell into a vat of redundancy? Well, let me check my list of powers and weaknesses. Ability to do anything... But only whenever I want... Yeah, that sounds like a job for me. Alan Rails, ladies and gentleman. After his parents' tragic death in a railroad accident, he gained the power to summon ghiost trains. It's not all bad, though. They were spared having to see their grown son wear a whistle! Thanks, Noob-Noob! This guy gets it. Uh, I was also late because of my drinking and metioned it to zero applause. Did he say he never forgets a kid? I guess he found his crowd. Pretty toothless stuff, guys. I hope you're happy with the adventure so far, Morty. These guys are even lamer than last time. Yikes. Yeah, things did feel less diverse in there. Don't worry, Morty, they love you. Superheroes need a wide-eyed unremarkable to tag along and react to everything like it's mind-blowing. Jesus... How awesome is that? I mean, they wanted to not need me so bad, they murdered three innocent heroes of color, and they still had to bring me back? Uh, the adventure is the favor, Morty. Me sleeping on these linens is the favor. I mean, w-w-w-what--what are we vindicating? Comfort? Why? Morty,  I defeat gagoos more powerful than these guys every week. Oh, please. They just call themselves heroes so they can... Huh... no accounting for taste. I'm gonna go get a drink. Ugh! Oh, Christ... Barely. Uh-huh. Uh, my God, that's better. Hey, I can't help if I can't see. Really? You don't say. You would have used a ghost train?  Hey, everybody, the ghost train guy would have used a ghost train! Is there coffee? Hey, Morty, can you be a pal? Grandpa left his coffee maker on the ship. Y-You know, the French press thing? Little extra  snippy this morning, aren't you? Oh, oh, oh, I'm sorry. Oh, you're right. Ooh, real serious. Gotta take it real serious, huh? Ooh, real scared. Real fucking on alert, high alwrt over here. Million Ants, ladies and gentleman! The ant colony with the power of two human eyes! All right. Short mission, good mission. Remember when Alan wanted to use a ghost train? See you guys in Vindicators 4. Morty? Well, have fun with that. But Morty and I have to meet a comet girl, a monorail man, two assholes and a full alligator in, like, an hour. Shit. Welp, it's official. I had too much to drink last night. Obviously, I came here last night during a blackout. Look, I'm a lit-- little more complex than you guys and, no offense, but I've always suspected that a lot of what you do in a year could be knocked out in a couple of hours. Morty I'm a drunk, not a hack. Well, I-I-I think we've seen enough. I'll just figure out how to unplug this. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on, Vance. He said you'd die if you tried to leave. That means there's booby traps. What part of "blackout" don't you understand? I thought you drank? Because my epidermis is laced with a nanofiber defense mesh. And because, like I said, I don't remember last night. Alan, I'm not proud of what's happening here, but if you keep coming at me, there's gonna be another passenger on that ghost train. Uh, I kind of am. I saved the goddamn universe. Ahh, it would've been if I hadn't. Huh, I'm seeing more croc than bot here. You know,  I could have made a device to detect Doomnomitron from orbit like  that. W-What? In w--In w-w-what--In what way? Like, w-w-what's my point? So, to be clear, I sometimes reference the geopolitical complexities of the topic, which is not the same as going to an anti-Semitic place. I don't either. I-I'm just saying, if anything, the drunk version of me is probably so supportive of Israel, he wants what's best for it and... Morty, how many of these...? Man, I am really getting high-roaded today. Where the fuck is the lead wire?! Jesus Christ, what a shitty neutrino bomb. it's a miracle I actually every destroy anything. Thank you. I appreciate it, Morty. I know you were sucking the Kool-Aid out of the Vindicators' dicks, so the fact that I was right about them must be pretty hard to admit. I know. Everyone wants people they like to be right. That's why popular people are fucking dumb. And why your pretentious, poorly-written, high-budget friends back there can a eat a double-decker shit sandwich.  Disarmed. Oof! Didn't see that comin'. Oh, come on, maybe a couple of them, but definitely not the train guy. O-kayyy... I could--It could be Morty. Hey, I don't know. I mean, look, when I get drunk, I get stupid and emotional and there's no logic to it. it's, like, possible I got so drunk, I felt like I was losing Morty to the Vindicators, and maybe this is my way of saying "Okay, you can have him, but only if you know how important he is, otherwise I'll kill you." Look, I... there's nothing in the room but us. I'm just using logic to connect some dots. It's the best guess I've got. Well, Morty, I think you're making that smirky face because you're misinterpreting the moment. I am not being coy about some hidden love for you. I want to be really clear that, if anyone has a better guess, like, if I gave you an amulet last night, or... Oh, shit. W--Dude, Morty, what happened i...? Titty-Bean? Yeah, I feel safer already. I'll say, we are gettin' some good licks in while choking to death. Damn! She double-crossed Snuzzles! Look at that. Geez, I must've planned a whole party. Invited a bunch of people. Not bad, Drunk Rick, not bad. Ah, who cares? Morty, twenty people try to kill me every week. I end up getting high with half of 'em. I mean, check it out, Gear Head's here. Shut up, Summer. Who the fuck is Noob-Noob? Alright, Morty. You ready for our adventure to the lost city of Atlantis? Oh, for fuck’s sake. What are you, stupid? We’re done with the Citadel of Ricks. I was  never on board with it in the first place, that’s why I murdered everyone in charge and left it to rot. Every day. You don’t have to be a dick. Well, you can keep wondering that while we go on our fun, fresh, self-contained adventure to Atlantis.  Anyone continuing to explore the Citadel is either stupid, or one of the unfortunate millions held hostage by their terrible ideas. Whoa!! Hahaha, yeah! Atlantis, baby! Got some of that mermaid puss! Pssh! Not at all, Morty. That place will never have any bearing over our lives ever again. Unlike that mermaid puss! Yeah!! We're going back for seconds! We're gonna do that shit every week, man! That was Atlantis! Well, I don't like your unemployed genes in my grandchildren, Jerry. But life is made of little concessions. Who the fuck are you? Everybody just relax for a second. There's no such thing as an "Uncle Steve." That is an alien parasite. No, you haven't Jerry. These telepathic little bastards, they embed themselves in memories they use those to multiply, spread out, and take over planets. It's disgusting. He's a real piece of shit! This is a big one, someone probably tracked in last week on the bottom of their shoe or on a piece of alien fruit. Get off the high road, Summer. We all got pink eye because you won't stop texting on the toilet. No, "Steve" put that memory in your brain so he could live in your house, eat your food, and multiply. We could be infested with these things, so we gotta keep an eye out for any zany, wacky characters that pop up. Thanks Mr. Poopybutthole. I always could count on you. Alright, there's six of us and that's it. Me, Morty, Jerry, Beth, Mr. Poopybutthole, and Summer. Can't afford to chance it. Trust me, Beth, you don't wanna know how many answers that question has. Why couldn't I bring my portal gun? Six, Morty! There's supposed to be six of us! If there's seven, then that means somebody's not real. I guessed. That's why I aimed for his shoulder. Wait. No! Don't flashback! Take that! Everybody stop remembering! These parasites are like bed bugs, and every flashback is another mattress. Look! There's only supposed to be six people in this house. No! Uh, the fact that I wrote this number down means that there's four parasites. All right, there's six of us,  and that's it. Me, Morty, Jerry, Beth, Mr. Poopybutthole, Frankenstein, Sleepy Gary, Photography raptor, Mr. Beauregard, and Summer. 6, 10, what's the difference? I just love the number 6 for no reason! Where's my pencil at? Oh, thanks, Pencilvester!  Yeah,I-I g-- I guess that is what happened, but I-I don't get why I would do that. That is su--  -- suspicious. We're always hearing about this Tinkles character, but we never get to – Look, I'm not used to being this unsure for this long. I'm just gonna aim for shoulders starting with the weird girl.   Hold still, "Summer." Oh, yeah? Well, what if you just think that, Sleepy Gary? I've known you for 15 years. Don't make me hurt you. Wait, why would you want me to -- You're one of them, aren't you? Shut up, Hamurai! Shut up, Amish Cyborg! What is this? '90s Conan? You know what, Pencilvester? It took me my whole life to realize it, but I love barbecuing. Watch me, baby. I'm like Tom Cruise from, um, "Cuisine" or w-whatever that movie's called where he makes drinks. Yeah, check me out. I'm like Tom Cruise from "Cuisine."  Yeah. Is that what it's called? "Cuisine"? Wait.  Noooooo! Shoot. Now look. It's like a "Where's Waldo?" page. Can you find me? Check out all these zany characters. We'll be right back after these messages. Can't do that, Sleepy Gary. All right, everybody listen to me. I don't know if any of you guys are real, but this house has been infested with fake loved ones that spread through fake memories, and our planet will be destroyed if they get out.  You guys, we got to hurry. I just got back from Walmart. They're selling Nintendo 3ds systems for $149.99 on sale, plus every time you buy one, you get a $50 gift card. Brings the total price down to $110 after tax. Now, listen, we can flip those sons of bitches for 230 bucks apiece easy! They're all limited-edition "Zelda" ones. Hurry! Hurry! Come with me! We can be rich, and we also all get to keep one and we can play Nintendo games! Nintendo, give me free stuff. Okay, yes, I definitely remember doing that, but also, I would never do that. Uh, no thank --  Okay. Trying to figure out how to lower the blast shields, huh? Anybody here think it's suspicious that a lot of people in here can't wait to get out of here? So, what are you gonna do when you rotate back to the world, Frankenstein? No! Get out of my head, parasite! No! Drop it. Give me the gun, Frankenstein!  Give it back!  Is anyone here even real? Am I the only real person on earth?! Hey, don't blame me! I tried to shoot Summer 10 minutes ago! Wubba lubba dub dub! Ricky ticky tavi, beyotch! And that's the wa-a-a-a-y the news goes. Hit the sack, jack. Uh-oh! Somersault jump. Aids! And that's why I always say shum shum shlippedy dop! Grassss tastes bad-ah. No jumpin' in the sewer. Burger time! Rubber baby baby bunkers! Lick, lick, lick my balls!  yeah! Say that all the time. Beth, I'm your father! Why don't you make me, implausibly naive pubescent boy with an old Jewish comedy writer's name? Shut up, Morty, you brainwashed, little turd that might not even be real because I'm brainwashed, too. Oh, oh, oh, really? Well, I remember you as a whiny, little piece of shit, Morty! Yeah! I've got about a thousand memories of your dumb little ass and about six of them are pleasant. The rest is annoying garbage. So why don't you do us both a favor and pull the trigger? Do it! Do it, motherfucker! Pull the fucking trigger! What the hell? Holy crap, Morty, you're right. Well, yeah, duh-doy. T-took you long enough.  Now let's go, Morty. We got a lot of friends and family to exterminate.  We need to kill everyone that we can only remember fondly. Who's got a bad memory about Mrs. Refrigerator? Everybody back! If you're not a parasite, you have nothing to fear. What about Summer?  Come on, man. Haven't we ever had an uncomfortable silence or an awkward fart on a road trip? Come on, Pencilvester. Give me anything. You're right.  Kill Pencilvester. I guess I did the butler! Ha ha! Does -- d-does that scan? Thanks, ghost in a jar. You always were good at pointing out potentially obscure comedy.   From now on, let's all be careful to wash our hands when we get back from outer space. That goes for everyone. At least we're real, Jerry. We're real. Rikki tikki tavi! No, Beth! Oh, geez! Oh, my god! Listen, Beth, don't torture yourself. I made a similar mistake years ago, but, you know, on a planetary scale. He's not pressing charges. I mean, that's got to be the "you shot me" equivalent of not being mad.  And that's the wa-a-a-a-y the news goes.  With the power of a thousand crows! Here’s two. Morty? Oh, uh, two crows, you remember Morty. Morty, two crows. It’s good to see you, but give me more of a heads-up. It’s just that the battle for crows is kinda never-ending. Take care, Morty. Ahem. I’m lookin’ for Crowscare. The scarecrow. The evil scarecrow. Come on, whoever gives him up first lives. Fine, I can kill an extra asshole. Helps me get my steps in. Morty? Uh, Morty. Why are you now like forty? Oh. Um, I guess we can have a drink together then. Time be going by, don’t she? I feel okay. Woah. Excuse us boys, you don’t wanna be here for this. Morty, what we had wasn’t healthy. First off, the will-they kill-they is everything to my guys. And second, fuck you for trying to undermine my happiness. I hope that’s not true, Morty. Because you look like sh-urrp-shit, and this is not how I wanna remember you. Looks like my arch-nemesis Crowscare and my sidekicks planning adventures together. What do you mean, ‘using me as a rebound’? You feel like I was using you as a rebound too? Well shit, this lost all meaning. Guess it could’ve been worse. At least ‘adventuring’ was just a metaphor for romantic partnership so it’s not a real breakup. What?! Eugh, no! I-I asked for zero proof! Zero proof! I’m giving you free will. Yah! Whoops. Wubba lubba dub dub! I’m back, pal! Wait a minute, I thought you died gruesomely. W-what the hell’s going on here? I kinda figured and I totally get it, Morty. I-I’m done with the two crows, like they were super clingy and I’m ready to make this work. Don’t worry honey, that’s just Morty’s middle age talking. He’ll be less codependent once we get more of his life in front of him again. Okay buddy, who sold you this shitty aging serum? What did he look like? Hot damn! Hitting the ground running with a Citadel episode. See you later, masturbators. Oof, what happened to this place? Ah, that’s cute. They rebuilt, and made it nicer. Goddamn you are cantankerous. Yeah, well, this place is gonna fix you right up. Can you reverse it? It’s not a literal bone, Morty. Eh, you look a little weird. Your skin’s all pink like a baby mouse. Is that normal? Wait, what? I ain’t payin’ to store twenty-six years. Alright, what’s disposal cost? Oh boy. Woof. You’re about to get suspended with pay. Come on, Morty. Let’s get out of here before this gets political. Ugh. Too late. You know I destroyed this place? Morty, the idea was to get back to simple adventures. The Citadel runs on canon. Fine, I could eat. But the second he reveals he’s evil, we’re gone. Okay, let me know if you start feeling poisony. Good to have you back, buddy. Look at this Morty. They really did make a you the president. Ha. Not unless you try to keep me here. There’s the reveal. Let’s dance. All politicians are nice. Serialized drama. And now you're running it squeaky clean, right? That’s why you got deformed Mortys comin’ up through the sewer lines talking about ‘hope’ and ‘change’. Alright, time to go Morty. Literally ten? Because now it would be six. You can’t scan an entire brain over appetizers. Evil Rick. That apology and a screwdriver in my hand would be worth one screwdriver. It isn’t the whole truth. It’s complicated! Okay, Morty, remember when all I said I needed was your apology and a screwdriver in my hand? Well, I forgot I literally have a screwdriver in my hand. I mean, duh-doi, I’m basically Inspector Gadget. Morty, when you came here for that serum did you refill this gun? I only know one man that ever hacked my Portal Gun, and it turned out it was evil you. Wait! Hold it, hold it! Time for Big Boy. Duck! He’s a metaphor for capitalism, Morty. What do you think? Yoink! I was expressing disapproval of your dialogue! He hacked the entire city’s portal supply. Come on, there still might be one way out of here. Out the bottom. I assume schematics for the Citadel’s Dimensional Drive. If he’s gonna use it to blow the Curve, we do not wanna be here. Q and A after our survival. Hopefully we can snag some untainted fluid at the source and get the fuck outta here. Or not. Wow. I thought my capitalism metaphor was on the nose. Can’t you just sneak through the cave base? We turned a new leaf, Morty. We’re back to simple adventures. Morty, we really don’t have time for this. The whole place is gonna blow. Yes. Now everyone can shut up about it. Morty, I’m not responsible for every fucked up Rick out there. Come on Morty, we gotta go! Ugh. From where I sit, Morty, that’s the best deal on the table. I-I don’t have a real plan. Thanks, pal. I-I’m glad you ignored my advice. Geez, you guys really are bred for forgiveness. Let’s go. Say goodbye to the Citadel, fellas. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday. It is. Oh, there's no need to do that, Beth. Regular pancakes are fine. Oh, I get it. Regular pancakes are already shaped like flying saucers.  Mmm, I should be making you breakfast for putting up with me. Everybody relax. If I know these a-holes, and I am these a-holes, they just wanna haul me to their stupid clubhouse and waste my time with a bunch of questions. Let’s get it over with. Leave my  Morty out of this! Will you at least unfreeze my daughter’s idiot? The citadel of Ricks. It’s the secret headquarters for the council of Ricks. As you know, Morty, I’ve got a lotta enemies in the universe that consider my genius a threat. Galactic terrorists, a few sub-galactic dictators, most of the entire intergalactic government: wh-wherever you find people with heads up their asses someone wants a piece of your grandpa. And a lot of versions of me on different timelines had the same problem. So a few thousand versions of me had the INGENIOUS IDEA OF BANDING TOGETHER like a herd of cattle or a school of fish or those people who answer questions on yahoo answers. Geez, you’re easy to impress. Yeah, most timelines have a Rick and most Ricks have a Morty. This place is a real who’s-who of who’s you and me. Dumb. Back off! Not my cup of tea, this place. I say the point of being a Rick is being a-Rick. Hey, save your Rick rules for the  sheep-Ricks, Rick-pig! Fuck you? No no no no no, fuck me! You think I did this? Why am I the first Rick you pull in every time a Rick stubs his toe? Yeah, so does the scientist formerly known as Rick! Wh-wh-wh-why isn’t he here in handcuffs? I’m the Rick. And so were the rest of you before you formed this stupid alliance. You wanted to be safe from the government so you became a stupid government. That makes every Rick here less Rick than me. Yeah, murmur it up, d-bags. Now if you’ll excuse me, I’ve got pancakes back home with syrup on top of them. They’re about to hit that critical point of syrup absorption that turns the cakes into a gross paste. And I hate to get all Andy Rooney about it, but I think we all like fluffy discs of cake with syrup on top! And I think we also like to be accused of crimes when there’s evidence! So as they say in Canada, peace oot! Oh, come on. Don’t look at another man’s portal gun history. We-we all go to weird places. What? That’s Rick-diculous. I’m obviously being set up! I’ve heard enough. Run, Morty! That’ll keep ‘em  busy for a while. ‘Course not, Morty! How could that profit me? Someone out there is killing Ricks, and the council ain’t gonna stop thinking it’s me until we clear our names. By finding the real Rick killer. Not really my style, Morty. Besides, your home is most likely swarming with Ricks right now. Hey Jerry, it’s Rick. So listen, the heat’s on and  there’s nowhere left to turn so Morty and I are just going to fly my spaceship into a black hole. Is that cool with you, dog? The Ricks are probably gonna waste some time messing with Jerry. They won’t be able to help themselves. But as soon as they get bored they’ll be on to us. Yeah, more phonesticks please. Yeah, it’s gotta be that way. You’re a camouflage. Ricks have a very distinct and traceable brainwave due to our genius. The best way to hide from an enemy’s radar is to stand near someone with complementary brainwaves that make ours invisible. See, wh-wh-when a Rick is with a Morty, the genius waves get cancelled out by the uh,  Morty waves. Oh, shit dog! My portal gun was hacked remotely Morty, obviously by the real killer to frame me. But I was able to trace the signal. Come on, let’s go! Uh-oh! Hey, it’s a good thing that space outlet had labcoats and your favourite kind of shirt in stock, huh Morty? Man, this place is wayyy off the grid. This guy does not wanna be found. Morty, you’re making a bigger deal out of this than it is. Not people, Morty. Mortys. Well, one Morty’s enough to hide from the bureaucrats. But you g- you get a whole matrix of Mortys and put ‘em in agonising pain. That creates a pattern that can hide even from other Ricks, motherfucker. I fiddled with a  concept like this once. On paper, Morty, on paper! I wouldn’t do this, it’s barbaric overkill. I mean, you could accomplish the same result with like five Mortys and a jumper cable.  Which I also wouldn’t do! I’m just saying, it’s bad craftsmanship. Hey, it’s your choice to take it personally, Morty. Now for the love of god, be quiet! The point of this is to get the drop on the guy! Yeah, that’s right! You are! You’re a perfect impenetrable sheet of human armour, Morty! Because you’re as dumb as I am smart! Which is why when I say ‘shut up’ it’s really good advice. Great, nice work, Morty. Urrgh. The slow clap? Really? Kinda played out, dude. Well lah-dee-dah.  I don’t like the look of that Rick, Morty. We gotta escape. Don’t be Rickdiculous, Morty. Yeah, yeah, looks like payday at Neverland ranch in here. Zing! That guy got it. Hey, I’ll take it over Mumford and Sons. Zip! This guy is on it! Awww. Yeah, duh! I get it. So you want me to team up with you to take down the council of Ricks, right? Is that where you’re going with this? ‘Cause that’s where I’d be going. No, I’m just allergic to dipshits. Morty! Get me out of this! Come on! Point taken, but this is  no time for arcs. Hey, what do me and O.J. not have in common? I found the real killer, biitch! Get over here! Uh, guys? Not a good time. Come on, Morty, let’s hit it. Alright, Morty, don’t break an arm jerking yourself off. Hey Morty, you want connection? Go be part of some stupid club like all those dumb Ricks. You know, maybe I don’t connect because I’m the Rickest Rick there is. And you know, it would  go without saying that the Rickest Rick… would have the Mortyest Morty. Yeah, it would. Did you hear me say it? Just don’t get too big for your loafers, Buster Brown. A cocky Morty could lead to some big problems. Could be a real bad thing for everybody. I-I-I’ll explain when you’re older. Wubbalubbadubdub! Oh. Hey Jerry. Wh-wh-what are you doing in my room, buddy? Alright. Okay, get out. What’s that dipshit doing out there? Are you friends with him? You know he eats his own shit, right? Oh my god, this is rich! I’ve got like  ten Ricks to call right now! Don't be Morty, there are pros and cons to every reality, fun facts about this one; it's got giant telepathic spiders, eleven 9/11's, aaaand the best ice cream in the multiverse! We're gonna go get some ice-cream motherfuckers! Oh great. Quantum carburettor? Jesus Morty; you can't just add a sci fi word to a car word and hope it means something. Huh, it looks like something's wrong with the microverse battery - we're going to have to go inside. The battery Morty. Be right back Summer; stay put, don't touch any buttons, and ignore all random thoughts that feel -- spider-y. You'll be fine. Ship, keep Summer safe. Morty, remember eight seconds ago when -burp- when you said 'go inside what' and I said 'the battery' and then we showed up here? Morty, remember eight seconds ago when  when you said, "Go inside what?" And I said, "The battery"? And then we showed up here, and I wasn't like, "Whoa, this is unexpected. This is not what I was expecting, Morty. What a perplexing mystery this is." Huh, this isn't right. This pipe's supposed to be sending 20 terawatts of juice up to the engine, Morty. Instead we've got... zero? Now what are these people doing? It's time for some hands-on engine repair.All right, Morty, hold on to something. Thanks, Morty. I'm pretty proud of this bad boy. Check it out. I put a spatially tessellated void inside a modified temporal field until a planet developed intelligent life. I then introduced that life to the wonders of electricity, which they now generate on a global scale. And, you know, some of it goes to power my engine and charge my phone and stuff.  It's society. They work for each other, Morty. They pay each other. They buy houses. They get married and make children that replace them when they get too old to make power.  Ooh-la-la, someone's gonna get laid in college. Would you relax, Morty? There's nothing dishonest about what we're doing. Now slap on these antennae. These people need to think we're aliens. Obviously  you really  know nothing about car repair. Wait for the ramp, Morty. They love the slow ramp. Really gets their dicks hard when they see this ramp just slowly extending down. Greetings! Morty, you got to flip them off. I told them it means "Peace among worlds." How hilarious is that? Coming through. Two real aliens walking through here. Uh, Mr. President, um, couldn't help but notice that you were having problems generating power.  I would love to see it. What did you say to me?! Oh. Right. Uh, b-blow me. Really? You're gonna pull that move? I guided your entire civilization. Your people have a holiday named Ricksgiving. They teach kids about me in school. Listen to me, you arrogant little--  Dumb  name.  Nothing. I mean, it's hard for us to comprehend all this. Would it be possible for us to get some kind of tour of your miniverse from the inside? I got to tell you, Zeep, with no disrespect, I really think what you're doing here is unethical. It's not cool. Y-y-you got the people on this world slaving away  making your power. I mean, that's what I call slavery.  Well, that just sounds like slavery with extra steps. I know. "Eek barba dirkle"? That's a pretty  up "ooh-la-la". Holy crap. You're right, Morty. Hypocrisy. Somewhere on this planet, there's got to be an arrogant scientist prick on the verge of microverse technology, which would threaten to make Zeep's flooble cranks obsolete, forcing Zeep to say microverses are bad, at which point he'll realize what a hypocrite he's being, his people will go back to stomping on their gooble boxes, and you and I will be on ice cream street, baby! Eating that mother ice cream! Slurping, slurping, slurping it up.  Wh-wh-why are you making that face?  You don't think that's overdoing it a little? I mean, you could achieve the same effect with a pair of-- Never mind. You know what? I shouldn't be so critical. I'm an alien.  Too fast. Hey, uh, let me ask you something. Any of your, uh, scientists working on anything new? Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I mean, like, energy-wise. Anyone working on, say, a little universe in a box? Hey, Zeep, the fake president of your fake world has something fake important to show you.  It's show time.  Told you, Zeep. What?  Microverse! Ugh! You b*st*rd! You're my battery, mother.  That's all you are. I made you. Your microverse sucks! And your miniverse is the size of a  lobster tank! It's whack! I made you! Come on, come on, come on. Pterodactyl! Yeah, well, when I get out of this teenyverse, I'm gonna get out of the surrounding miniverse and then the microverse around that, and guess what? Yeah, but don't flatter yourself. There's always AAA, you fucking cocksucker! What's he doing? What's he crafting? I can craft stuff, too, pal! Just like I crafted your reality! You crafty son of a-- Yeah, and I made the stars that became the carbon in your mother's ovaries! Sure. Okay, Morty. Just be back before sundown or the tree people will eat you. It's a prehistoric planet, Morty. Someone has to bring a little culture. And it certainly can't be someone whose entire culture powers my brake lights! Hey, that's my deer! Raah! My God's the biggest dick that's never existed. Why do you think I'm even here? Oh, I thought we were both here because I created a universe of idiots. Holy shit. Morty? I haven't seen you in months. You're leading the tree people? Huh. That's a step up. Ooh. Wow. Gaaaaay. No can do, Morty. I just can't. All right, not bad. I've certainly seen worse ionic cell dioxination. If drinks are on you, you're gonna need a second mortgage on that tower. I'm an alcoholic. Hey, uh, how about that drink? Is our wallet in your ship? That's where the transporter is, too, so why don't we come with? You know how long a second can take in a microverse? Oh! Run, Morty! That asshole's willing to risk everything he cares about just to defeat me! He's psychotic! Morty, hop on my back. Go, go  Sanchez ski shoes. Oof! Hold still.  Aaaah! Holy-- Nothing you do matters! Your existence is a lie! Quick, Morty, you've got to turn into a car. A long time ago, I implanted you with a subdermal chip that could call upon dormant nanobots in your bloodstream to restructure your anatomy and turn you into a car. Concentrate, Morty. Concentrate and turn into a car, Morty. Never mind. Here's a taxi. Get in. It's fine. Hey, Zeep. Happy Ricksgiving, biiiiiitch. We did it, Morty. Now let's get out of here and destroy this whole universe. You quit school, but you still got some learning to do.  Unh! Class dismissed. You all right? Oh, you think so, huh, Morty? Well, let's see. Of course you don't. But Zeep did. He knew that once I got back to my car, one of two things was gonna happen-- I was gonna have to toss a broken battery, or the battery wouldn't be broken.  Yeah. Listen to that baby purr. You were right, Morty-- We really just needed to be honest with those guys. All right, here we go. Thank y-o-o-ou. See, Morty? This is what it's all about.This is why we do what we do. Ew! What the hell? Jesus! There's flies in my ice cream. What the fuck did you do, Summer?! Don't blame my ship! My ship doesn't do anything... ...unless it's told to do something! I don't want to hear it, Summer! Your boobs are all hanging about, and you ruined ice cream with your boobs out. And don't even try to deny it, either. Run! Morty, do it! Hit the button now! *holding off the clones* Morty, I already told you, it’s not your family! They’re clones from an alternate reality possessed by demonic alien spirits from another dimension’s future! Do you need a mnemonic device or something? Just hit the button already! Good work, Morty. *holding up the device and smiling* Y-You know, these demonic alien spirits are really valuable! You okay, Morty? Told you not to trust that tuna. I dunno, Morty. Some people would pay top dollar for that kinda breakthrough. Whoa whoa whoa, *grabs Morty’s shoulder, stopping him* come on, Morty! D-D-Don’t be like that! The universe is a crazy and chaotic place! Oh yeah, Morty. Yeah, t-t-that- that’s real easy to say from the sidekick position. But—But, uh, h-how about next time you be in charge, then we’ll talk about how simple and fun it is. Okay, fine. But let’s make it interesting, Morty. I-I-If your adventure sucks, and we bail halfway through it, you lose the right to bitch about all future adventures. Plus, you have to do my laundry for a month. Every 10th. Washing dishes? Yeah just don't do it. Wow. Hat trick. All right, Morty, let's put a pin in this. I got to help your pathetic family. Oh, Morty, you done did it this time. It's on. I can't wait to watch your adventure lay a huge fart. As for you dingdongs... This is a Meeseeks box. Let me show you how it works. You press this. You make a request. Mr. Meeseeks, open Jerry's stupid mayonnaise jar. The Meeseeks fulfills the request. And then it stops existing. Trust me, they're fine with it. Knock yourselves out just keep your requests simple. They're not gods. God, Morty, what a boring start to an adventure. Why didn't we just go to Kentucky? Can't wait. Oh, my God, so embarrassing. Yeah. Beginner's luck. All right, Morty. We're in your stupid giant's castle. What do we do next? Uh-oh, Morty. Startin' to get a little hairy. What do you want to do, boss? Just give up, Morty. This is game over. I'll take us home right now. You just say the word. Oh, boy. He looks pretty bad down there, Morty. Looks like he's bleeding out. Ooh, boy, Morty, you're really showing me how it's done. Real straightforward and fun. Oh, great adventure, buddy. Rick and Morty go to giant prison. You know, if somebody drops the soap, it's gonna land on our heads and crush our spines, Morty. You know, it'll be really easy to rape us after that. How? They took my portal gun. This is an open-and-shut case, Morty. You know, what do you think's gonna happen, some magical angel's gonna show up and then- W-what the hell is he talking about? All right, Morty, looks like the portal gun's still working. You ready to head home? Morty, cut your losses. This is obviously awash. Oh, boy, Morty. What do you say, Morty? Yeah, Morty, this is the part of the story everybody loves scaling down 650,000 oversized steps. What are you looking at, motherfucker? Yeah, yeah, yeah, how about some scotch whiskey? You got any of that around here? Or just a bunch of nonsense words? 25 shmeckels? I don't know how much I don't know what that is. Is that a lot? Is it a little? Morty, your adventure's in a spiral. For real, man, time to pull out. Uh, because it's lame? Whatever. ♪ Sweet home Alabama. Wooooo! ♪ Read 'em and weep, fellas!  Oh, hey, Morty. Listen, I'm really sorry about all that stuff I said earlier about your adventure. I'm havin' a good time, Morty. It's not so bad. We can't leave now, Morty. I'm on fire! Okay. Listen, Morty. I just won a bunch of shmeckels. Why don't we use 25 of them to pay slippery stair here for a ride back to the village, and then we'll give the rest of the shmeckels to the villagers, huh? Sure, Morty. Yeah. You know, a good adventure needs a good ending. Good job, Morty. Looks like you won the bet. Well, you know, maybe that's why it could use a little cleaning up every now and then, you know. This one's wrapped up neat and clean because we did it Morty style. What the hell happened to this place? Hey, it's not my fault that Jerry's an idiot. Well, you know, I do have a Fleeseeks box. What? It just has a mop and some floor wax in it. Wubba lubba dub dub!  Yeah! That's my new thing! I'm kind of like what's his name Arsenio. Isn't that it's what Arsenio used to say on his show. Wobble gobba lop bops! Right? See you next week, everybody. Well if it's any consolation, Summer, none of it mattered, and the entire show is stupid.  I thought you'd never ask.  20% accurate, as usual,  Morty.  The important thing being I just upgraded our cable package with programming from every conceivable reality. How about Showtime Extreme in a world where man evolved from corn?  Summer,  you just spent  three months watching a man choose a fake wife. Jerry, you don't get it. This is infinite TV, from infinite universes. Look.  A movie about a guy eating shit.  A violent Antiques Show...  Letterman from a time line where Jerry's famous.  I agree. Where's this going? Really? All right, fine.  All right, Jerry, when you're right, you're right. Now I'm hooked. Amazing. A dimension where all proper nouns begin with "Schmla". All right, that got, that actually got old pretty quick. Infinity's a big number, Jerry. I don't remember the channel. Jeez.  Infinite timelines, infinite possibilities - including a time line where Jerry's a movie star. Look, you guys are getting excited about the wrong aspect of this device. Ju-- Wa-- Look at this.  Now who wants to watch random, crazy TV shows from different dimensions, a-a-and then who wants to narcissistically obsess about their alternate self?  Here.  These scan your retinas, and let you view parallel time lines through genetically matching versions of your eyes.  Go fetch! I'm proud of you, Morty. Yeah, it's got an almost improvisational tone.   Hey, do we have any wafer cookies?  Mm!  Oh, boy. Looks like you guys have been checking out alternate lives and realizing you don't have it as good, huh? That's too bad. You know, me and Morty are having a blast, We just discovered a show called "Ball Fondlers". I mean, I don't want to rub it in or anything, but you guys clearly backed the wrong conceptual horse.  I'm in heaven right now.  Interesting fun fact, uh… Moynihan and Piece of Toast hate each other. Apparently they've got some real creative differences.  Relax, Morty. Don't-don't worry about it. Let's just just see where this goes. Huh. Making himself a sandwich now.. Oh my God! It's still the commercial! All right, I'm bored. Change it. Hey, isn't Gazorpazorp where-where uh, where those Sex robots came from, remember? That whole thing? Yeah. Let's watch some more Gazorpazorpfield! No, Morty, it's Lorenzo Music. In this reality, he's still alive. Yeah, I'm pretty sure. He also did that voice of that one guy from Ghostbusters, which is really strange, because it's the same character Bill Murray played in the movie. But then, when they made the movie Bill Murray did the voice of Gazorpazorp-- or Garfield, I mean. I don't know. Just making conversation with you, Morty. What do you think? I-I-I-I know everything about everything? Well, you know, Morty, I mean, you want to sell boxes of cereal, you gotta, you gotta, pump the gas a little. Pedal t-to the metal, Morty. Sex sells, Morty. Speaking of  what, Morty,  what should we  watch next? What about this?  Pretty cool, huh, Morty?  Oh. I don't give a fuck what you think, Jerry. Hey Morty, you just missed a preview for your Dad's "Citizen Kane". Come on, Je- Are you kidding me, Jerry? It's just a bunch of dumb tabloid crap.  What are you asking me for Jerry?  I'm sitting here  trying to figure out why the cops don't just take you out. Th--  they've got a clear shot to your head. I can't believe our tax dollars pay for this.   Hey, Ball Fondlers? Huh? Ball Fondlers?  Yeah, sweetie, they-- that's where they live.  Look, I don't know! I'm watching the-- same thing you guys are.  I don't know, Summer! I can't even hear the TV!  All right, that's it. We're just gonna go there, so you idiots can ask your stupid questions all day. T-t-t-this is just sloppy craftsmanship. Oh, yes, Morty. It's almost unbelievable, isn't it? Oh, sure, buddy. Yeah. Sure. B-brilliant. Very convincing. Oh! Responsive, too! In real time! I love it! Oh, what's with Mom? So, you're saying that she's acting weird? How soph—*burp*—isticated. Careful, guys. You're gonna burn out the CPU with this one. Whatever, quote-unquote “Morty.” *spying from outside* Interesting… *kicks open the door* Morty, u-uh, come on. There's a family emergency. He doesn't care. Take a shower with me, Morty. Listen to me, Morty. Get your clothes off and get in the shower right now. *strips* Y-y-y-you got to trust me, Morty. Morty, that's not class. T-t-t-that wasn't your teacher. This isn't your school. This entire world is not the world. We're inside a huge simulation chamber on an alien spaceship. It’s all fake *burps* Morty, all of it. Nanobotic renderings, a bunch of… crazy, fake nonsense, Morty. I couldn't say so until we got in the shower. They won't monitor us in here. Zigerion scammers, Morty. The galaxy's most ambitious, least successful con artists. You know, it's lucky for us they're also really uncomfortable with nudity. I can’t let you do that, Morty. No! You give it to me! Morty, come on! Morty! Uhp, uhp, uhp! Morty, keep your hands off your ding-dong! It's the only way we can speak freely. Look around you, Morty. Do you really think this world is real? You'd have to be an idiot not to notice all the sloppy details. Look, that guy's putting a bun between two hot dogs. Well, look at that old lady. She's, she's walking a cat on a leash. Look, I-I-I don't wanna hear about Mrs. Spencer, Morty! She's an idiot! Alright, alright, there. W-what about that, Morty? Oh, really, Morty? Are you sure you haven't seen that somewhere in real life before? You're missing the point, Morty. Why would he drive a smaller toaster with wheels? I mean, does your car look like a smaller version of your house? No. Well, that would be obvious to you, Morty, if you'd been paying attention. Yeah, it's a special fuel I invented to travel through space faster than anybody else. These Zigerions are always trying to scam me out of my secrets, but they made a big mistake this time, Morty. They dragged you into this. Now they're gonna pay! We'll scam the scammers, Morty. And we're gonna take them for everything they've got. Morty, relax. It's just a bunch of 1s and 0s out there. You're gonna be fine.  Just follow my lead.  Yo, deejay, drop that beat. Uh-oh, Morty. This crowd looks too small for one of our famous rap concerts. I don't think we can perform our new song, "The Recipe for Concentrated Dark Matter," for a crowd this tiny. Now that’s more like it! Morty, here we go. Let me hear everybody say "hey-oh!" yeah!  All the ladies say, "yeah!"  Everybody over thirty, do this with your hands! Everybody with a red shirt, jump up and down!  Yo, everyone whose first name begins with an "L" who isn't Hispanic, walk in a circle the same number of times as the square root of your age times ten!  Run, Morty! Before the system reboots! Out of the simulation, Morty. Normally, the chamber operates like a treadmill, with the virtual world disappearing behind us and being rendered in front of us as we move through it, but while it's frozen, Morty, we can get to…the edge. Here we go. *jumps off the edge* Come on, Morty. Keep your eyes peeled for the central processing room, Morty. That's how we're gonna scam these idiots. It's an obsession for them at this point. The Zigerions have been trying to outsmart me for years, Morty. Every time they do, I'm one step ahead of them. *finds central processing room* Aha! Here we go. *starts collecting chips* Grab as many processors as you can carry, Morty. These guys aren't good at much, but they're really good at making these chips. Don't worry about it, Morty. There's plenty of them, you little goofball.  Come here, Morty! Oh, I gotcha! Nothing wrong with just a little bit of horseplay every now and then, little fella. Totes malotes, dawg. Believe it, Morty. And once again, I'm flying away with everything I can carry, and the Zigerions got nothing of mine. Get in, Morty. I'm gonna be able to use these processors to make some real important science stuff.  Huh. I thought I entered the code right.  Uhh… Uh, yeah, until I get home before you and change the combination, you bunch of idiots! RUN MORTY! Jerry?! What are you doing here? W-why are you dressed like a waiter? Screw it. We don't have time. Come on. *starts dragging Jerry with them* Man up, Jerry! I may need you to work the lasers. I guess they really do have concentrated dark matter. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh, check the engine room. We just need cesium, Plutonic quarks, and bottled water. Wow, Morty. Lucky break. Grab that bucket. Okay, two parts Plutonic quarks, one part cesium. Now empty the water bottle into the bucket and pour it all into the fuel tank so we can get the hell out of here! What are you doing, Morty?! There's no time! Oh, no. No! You simulated my grandson's genitalia?! Y-y-you bunch of diabolical sons of bitches! All right. Okay. All right, great. Wonderful. You win. Can we go home now? Hey, Jerry, don't worry about it. So what if the most meaningful day of your life was a simulation operating at minimum capacity? Maybe you're right, Jerry. Maybe you're right. Why don't you ask the smartest people in the universe, Jerry? Oh, yeah. You can't. They blew up. Hey, Morty. Hey, little buddy. H-h-how you doing in here right now? Y-y-you're a good kid, Morty. Y-you're a real l-little c-character, Morty. You know, I had a really rocky road today, M-Morty. You're my little friend, aren't you? We had some good times together, huh, M-Morty? We You're a real true hero out in the field. You're a... You're a real trouper, huh, M-M-Morty? I really appreciate you, Morty. *suddenly aggressive, holds a knife to Morty’s throat* You little son of a bitch! Y-y- are you a simulation?! Huh?! Are you a simulation?! You little son of a bitch! I-I-I’m sorry, Morty. Y-you're a good… You're a good kid, Morty. Y-you're a good… You're a good kid. *passes out* *snores* Have fun, you two. I know, c-can we wrap this up? Morty and I  have some synthetic laser-eels oxidizing in the garage. Listen, you have my word as a caregiver, everything's gonna be fine. And if not, like you say, no more adventures or whatever. It's like that old song "blomp blomp-a noop noop a-noop noop noop". You guys know that song?  From Tiny Roger's? You never heard of it? You know, the black effeminate guy from the '50s? No-nobody?  A-all right, whatever. Look, who cares? Just go on your stupid trip.  Uh, Summer, you can't have a party.  Because  I'm having a party, b-I-I-I-itch!  "Glip glop?" You're lucky a Traflorkian doesn't hear you say that. It's like the n-word and the c-word had a baby, and it was raised by all the bad words for Jews.  That's why you party? Boy, you really are 17. To get  wr-wriggedy wriggedy wrecked, son! Yeah, and you keep your awesome friends away from my canapes.  Birdperson! Oh, there's an emergency, all right.  A pussy emergency! When's the last time you got laid, 'pers? Then it's time to get your beak wet tonight, playah.  Go have some fun out there birdp-- bird-- birdperson. Uh... people? Mm, six. Yo! What up, my glip glops?! Uh-huh. Yeah. No, no, to-totally. Morty! Have you met Gearhead?  Morty here, he -- he would love to hear all about the Gear Wars.  Oh, hey, Morty! H-have you -- have you met my buddy scropon? Whoa, Morty, this guy's entire planet was destroyed. Have a little perspective. Aw! Squanchy! Squanchy, you can squanch wherever you want, man. Mi casa es su casa, dawg! Morty, listen -- we've had a lot of really cool adventures over the last year, but it's time to relax. Jesus, Morty, you're bumming me out. Can't we just pretend like everything's fine for a few hours, enjoy ourselves, and then worry about all this later? Knock it off, Slow Mobius! Well, what are you doing standing here, Morty? Go. Talk to her.  Tonight, the only adventure you're on is your cusping manhood. Whoa. Not cool, summer. This is a party.  Everybody should be welcome. Oh, great. Who invited Abradolph Lincoler?  It's not the same, Summer. Lincoler is a crazed maniac -- just a misguided effort of mine to create a morally neutral superleader by combining the DNA of Adolf Hitler and Abraham Lincoln. Turns out  it just adds up to a lame, weird loser. Don't look at me, dude. Kick his ass, Brad!   I just did you a favor, Morty. Huh. Big star in the sky.  Oxygen-rich atmosphere. Giant testicle monsters.  We'll be fine! Let's party! Oh, man. Y-you hear that, Morty? You really lucked out with Summer o-on that one.   Relax, Morty, rela-a-a-ax!  It's gonna be fine. All we have to do is go out and find us some kalaxian crystals.  Oh, shit, motherfucker! Kalaxian crystals, Morty, just a few miles South of here.  Whoa, whoa, whoa. Morty, Morty, I-I can't go with you. I got to hang back and make sure everything stays cool here, you know? I mean, who knows what -- what if somebody breaks something? Oh, hey, Morty, this is perfect! You can take Lincoler with you. Shut up, Lincoler.  It's the least you can do for wrecking the living room. All right! You did it, Morty.  Well, at least he didn't die in vain. He got these crystals.  And these babies just saved this lame-ass party! Wubba, lubba, dub, dub! Play something. Somebody, play something.  ♪ Put your right foot forward ♪ ♪ and your left foot back ♪ ♪ then fucking slide around ♪ ♪ like on a nordictrack ♪ ♪ move to the left ♪ ♪ step to the right ♪ ♪ wiggle your elbows, and look ♪ ♪ up into the light ♪ Slow Mobius, hit me with the clock beam! That's the Rick dance! All right!  Whoa, man! What? No, no, no. I can get us home whenever I want to. But, listen, speaking of those crystals, can I get the rest of them? I'm starting to come down, Morty.  Crystal kalaxian is a really strong, but fleeting high.  Oh, Morty, you idiot! Does anybody else have any more k-lax? B-birdperson? Uh, squanchy? All right, all right, fine, Morty, you party pooper buzzkill! Boo, boo! Morty sucks! Morty, you're the worst, Morty.   Hmm, yeah. Mhh mhm...  Huh? What? Wait? What? What? Stop. Augh. Uh, all -- all right.  All right. Hold -- hold on.  Ahh! So good. Bring me the thing.  The thing. The thing. The -- the -- it's got, like, buttons on it and lights on it. It -- it -- it beeps. Summer  for for the win. All right, that should do it. Uh, s-see for yourself. Yeah, e-everything's frozen in time. Yeah, and slow mobius thinks he's all that. I don't know. How long do you guys want? A week? A month? Worst movie ever. Don't need to. I have a  new catchphrase. love my grandkids. Psych! Just kidding -- my new catchphrase is, "I don't give a fuck". That's the end, motherfucker! "I don't give a fuck" is my new catchphrase! Fuck you! That's season one! Boom! Season one up in your face, motherfucker! Yeah! Whatever. Well, scientifically, traditions are an idiot thing. Pass the butter. Thank you. I’m busy. Uh, anything else? You pass butter. Yeah, welcome to the club, pal. Since when did you have a job? Wee-ow, can’t wait to meet this fascinating character.  Huh. Eh, I make my own stuff. So what are you, like, the devil? I dunno, store comes out of nowhere, all the shit’s old and creepy; are you the devil? A demon? Leprechaun? Hey, I’m not judging. I just like to shoot straight. I’m a man of science. Hahahahaha. Hey, Morty, lemme ask you a question real quick. Does evil exist, and if so, can one detect and measure it? Rhetorical question Morty. The answer is yes, you just have to be a genius. Your sister’s boss gave me a microscope that would have made me retarded. Uh, Morty, I’m not disparaging the differently abled. I’m stating the fact that if I had used this microscope, it would have made me mentally retarded. Well that’s retarded. Apparently nothing. It’s not. Whoa. Stay scientific, Jerry. This serum should counteract the negative effects.  Here. You can have this back. Sure I did. To develop this. It detects and catalogues all your Twilight Zone Ray Bradbury Friday the 13th of series voodoo crap magic. I thought you might want it so you didn’t accidentally sell anybody, say,  a typewriter that generates best-selling murder mysteries, then makes the murders happen in real life? Oooh. Don’t you want to make sure people know what they’re getting? You’re not intentionally selling  beauty cream that makes ugly ladies pretty but also makes them blind? Oh, I say, good sir! Oh, harrumph, oh, oh, bobba-doppa-doopa-bo-bo.  That’s beautiful, you know it’s going to be wearing you in three hours? Here, you can use my phone. Don’t worry, it won’t make you deaf because I’m not a hack. Think you’re so great? You work for the devil! Whoops. Have you acquired creepy, specific old stuff from an antique or thrift store that gives you powers but fucks with you in unforeseeable ways? Bring it to Curse Purge Plus! I use science to uncurse the items for cash, and you get to keep the powers! This guy got mysterious sneakers to make him run faster! But guess what? He would have had to run until he died, making them worthless. I removed the curse, making them worth, like, I dunno, $8,000,000? See ya at the Olympics. This eerily intelligent doll was threatening to murder its family. Now it does their taxes. Don’t pay for cool stuff with your soul. Pay for it with money. You know, like how every other store in the world works? We’re located at First and Main in old town. Come on, come on down. Wubba… lubba… dub dub! Wubba lubba dub dub! That’s right across the street from Needful Things, where you can get evil items for free! Looks like we’ve got… haunted boxing gloves that will make you the heavyweight champion, in 1936 and then you’ll be trapped there winning the same fight for eternity. I can take out the eternity, and the padding, and then you’ll have some time travelling mittens. Oh, look, it’s Rosemary’s baby! How’s business? Sounds like code for ‘You win, Rick!’ Nope, it was important to your dumb devil friend. To me this was all just a bit like when Bugs Bunny fucks with the opera singer for twenty minutes. Seriously? Holy crap. Holy crap. Uh huh, yeah, I don’t care. So? I always do. Yeah, it is good. It’s the best. Later! Yeah, uh, gimmie a sec. Alright, yeah, uh, put ‘em on my… eh. I just got bored. Everybody out.  Hey Morty, you wanna go on a- oh.  Hey Beth? Hello?  Hey Jerry, you in here being stupid?  Thanks. Hey, y’know, I was thinking I might watch a movie… Suit yourself. Hey!  Hey. What’s going on? Whatever. How’s your pretend grandpa doing AKA the devil? Oof, sorry. Hm, not sure. No, that’s dumb. I’ll tell you what though, if it’s satisfaction you’re after, I think I might have an idea.  Stupid mother- Stupid motherfucker! How do you like that! Augh! How do you like that? We did it! Was totally worth it! We did it, hahaha! We just pulled it off! Hahaha!  Ho ho ho, everybody. Calm down Jerry, this is Ruben, an old friend. I check in on him once a year and give him a little  medical  evaluation. Don't worry about your C-C-Christmas, Jerry.  Ruben and I'll be in my workshop while you have another day in Phil Collins’ proverbial paradise. Hi Joyce, Leonard.  Hello there. Morty! A moment of your time? He's in bad shape, Morty. Gee, thanks Morty. What kind of monster do you think I am? I-I'm sittin’ here trying to save the guy's life!  I want you to find Dr. Xenon Bloom. He'll know what's goin’ on. In Ruben.  Ruben on the table, Morty!  Look, I-I don't have time for you to wrap your little walnut around everything.  Hold your breath until the process is over or your lungs will collapse. He's busy. Morty, can you hear me? Head North!  Depending on my aim, you should be just south of the entrance. Welcome, Morty.  Welcome...  ...to Anatomy Park! It's a little business venture I’ve been cookin’ up on the side with Dr. Bloom.  An amusement park inside a human body. Science isn't cheap, Morty. This should really help put a dent in the overhead. You got a problem with that last one, Morty? Okay, alright, if I sounded a little defensive, it's because Pirates of the Pancreas was my baby. I-I got a lot of push-back when I pitched it, Morty. I guess I'm still a little defensive. Let's just find Dr. Bloom, alright? I-I'm picking up a distress signal in the liver, Morty. Proceed to the liver. Liver's under maintenance. Ruben's seen some rough years, Morty. Don't judge. You don't agree to have a theme park built inside you if your life's going great. No no, Morty. The only monster here is alco—  —holism.  That is an animatronic werewolf. Hey Bloom, it's Rick. What the hell's goin’ on here? Watch it. Just take a deep breath, Ruben. Oh, great work, Morty.  I'll just cure it, and then— Okay. Well I can't cure death. This is bad, Morty. You're trapped in a dead man. Listen, if the situation keeps darkening, do yourself a favor— —and hop by Pirates of the Pancreas. Obviously I'm biased, but, I think it's great, Morty.  It's a bunch of pirates runnin’ around a-a-a- pancreas. We don't whitewash it either, Morty. The pirates are really rapey. The top priority is to get you guys out of there, but I'm just saying, if that becomes impossible— —please, you gotta treat yourself. Oh. Oh, Morty. Strike one. Morty, you wanna put it on mute or something?  I’m trying to concentrate.  Not now, Jerry. I’ve got much, much smaller fish to fry. Relative… That’s it! Relative size! Jerry, hand me a scalpel and a bundle of dynamite!  Morty! Can you get to the left nipple? Morty, I’m talkin’ about Ruben's left nipple! I'm almost there, Morty! Where's Dr. Bloom? Goddamn it, Morty, I ask you to do one thing! Too bad about Dr. Bloom.  He was a genius. The only man capable of creating a new Anatomy Park. What about Pirates of the Pancreas...? Booyah! Hold your breath! Yeah, so I heard. You dodged a bullet, Morty, trust me.  Puffy vagina. C’mon. Let's get some stuffing, I'm starving. Oh, unbelievable. We got a bunch of robot computer people sittin’ around with their faces stuffed in computer screens.  Do you realize Christ was born today? Jesus Christ our Savior was born today! A-A-A-Are you people even human? What kind of Christmas is this? Loud and clear, Annie. Hey everybody. Yeah, talk to me. Those guys are inside you building a piece of shit, Ethan! They're inside you building a monument to compromise! Fuck 'em. Fuck those people. Fuck this whole thing, Ethan. Learning to fly this thing, Morty, it's gonna be really liberating. Y-Y-You’re gonna be free to go on all kinds of errands for me.  See that planet right there? Don’t fly too close to that planet. Someone’ll come out and try to wash your windshield.  Hold on.  Yup. Yeah, I have it. Where do you wanna meet? Alright, cool.  Alright Morty, lesson’s over. We got some business to attend to a few lightminutes south of here.  WHOA! Jesus, Jerry, what the hell are you doing here?! I guess I remember that.  Wow. And you’ve just been back there this whole time? Amazing. Well we don’t have time to take him to Earth, Morty. Head for 3124-917. Yep. Nope.  This is. You can park in a handicapped spot, Morty. Anything with less than eight limbs is considered disabled here. You kidding? I wish I had this idea. Well… I did have this idea, but I wish I was the version of me that owned it. That guy’s rich.  Trust me Morty, I’ve heard stories from other Ricks. Jerrys don’t tend to last five minutes off of Earth. This is a totally unregistered cross-temporal asteroid. Here they can romp and play with other Jerrys. It couldn’t be safer. Hey Morty, hang onto this. That number’s your dad. If you lose it, we’re not gonna be able to get him back. Okay, wait here. Don’t come with. It’s boring, it’s  business stuff. Right, like nothing shady ever happened in a fully furnished office? You ever hear about Wall Street Morty? Y-You know what those guys do in th—in their fancy board rooms? They take their balls, and they dip ‘em in cocaine, and they wipe ‘em all over each other. You know, Grandpa goes around, and he does his business in public because Grandpa isn’t shady. Ah, crap.  Hey, what’s up? Can… Can we please…? This is my grandson, Morty. Ugh.  Here, now go away. Y-Y-Y-You’re gonna give him your card?! Ugh… You’ve got what the intergalactic call a very planetary mindset, Morty. It’s more complicated out here! These are Flurbos. Do you understand what two humans can accomplish with three thousand of these? An entire afternoon at Blips and Chiiiitz! Aw, this place is the best. It’s got beer, games, prizes, and you can never tell what time it is. Yeah, sure, if you spend all day shuffling words around you can make anything sound bad, Morty.  Here, check this out. Fifty-five years. Not bad, Morty. You kinda wasted your thirties though with that whole birdwatching phase. Morty. You were just playing a game. It’s called Roy. Snap out of it, come on.  Lookit this. You beat cancer and then you went back to work at the carpet store? Boo. It’s also the same as doing nothing. If Krombopulos Michael wants someone dead, there’s not a lot anybody can do to stop him. That’s why he does it for a living? Now if you’ll excuse me, it’s time to thrash your Roy score.  Uh-huh, yeah, that’s the difference between you and me, Morty. I never go back to the carpet store. What are you doing Morty?! This is a Galactic Federation outpost! Look, I don’t have time to tell you my entire backstory, but Grandpa and government don’t get along! What? Oh, good job, Morty. Y-Y-Y-You killed my best customer but you saved a mind-reading fart! Morty, don’t do it.  Morty…  Morty, you idiot! We can’t get him outta here. He’s gaseous. He’s not gonna make it through a portal, Morty. Morty, come on, I-I wanna go back to Blips and Chitz. I don’t wanna deal with this! Screw this. I’m out. Stupid-ass fart-saving carpet-store motherfucker!  Move! Wait, did you fuck with my seat settings? Yeah, yeah.  That’s ‘cause my grandson drives like a male Obavradian. Yeah, I said it. Some stereotypes are based in fact.  So I’ve heard. Just fix it.  I don’t think the Gromflomites can track us now, but it looks like we’re gonna be here for awhile.  Or, ya know, if you still have that gun K. Michael dropped, we can finish the job and go home. I’m being polite. Yeah, where’s that? Are you going on a quest to find he who smelt it? Oh great, just a hop, skip, and an 800 lightyear jump!  Whatever you wanna do you little punk-ass little bitch…  Shut the fuck up about moonmen! This isn’t a musical number. This is a fucking operation, we gotta be cool and fucking lay low! Son of a…  Why were the Gromflomites holding you prisoner? What the fuck is so valuable about you?  Ah, terrific. The fart that pooped gold. No wonder every cop in the system is lookin’ for us!  Any species that gets a hold of this thing is gonna use it to take over the galaxy. Do you know how inconvenient that’s gonna be to my work? Somebody dropped the dime on us. Gearhead…  Number One is me, asshole! You’re supposed to be my friend! Two things I wanna make clear to everybody in this room. Never betray me, and it’s time to go. Hey Morty, remember when you said selling a gun was as bad as pulling the trigger? How do you feel about all these people getting killed because of your choices? Tell that to Gearhead’s gearsticles. Wrong! I’d be playin’ Roy right now. At a certain point, my hands are tied, Morty. Morty, take the wheel! Whoa! Geez, dammit, Morty! Who taught you to fly this thing?!  Haha, I’m kidding, I know that’s on me. Shit. Well, I guess this is it. Damn. Can’t blame that on the dog. …Talk about silent but deadly. I-I’ve seen some nerve gas but ga- th-this gas got some nerve! Haha, you know what I’m sayin’? I’ll let you know, Morty. Gone with the wind, am I right? If you don’t like that one, Morty, an alt on that one could be, like…if I said Gasablanca! …Alright, I’m done.  Let’s get to the Promethean Nebula, so my grandson can finish savin’ a life! Fine. Morty, take your fart to his hole and say your goodbyes. I’m gonna find some fuel and take a biiiig fat Morty.  That’s my new word for ‘shit’ because of today’s events. So did you guys make out a little bit? Is he gonna send you a postcard?  Man, that guy hit the lottery when he crossed paths with you. Morty, I know I picked on your core beliefs and decision making a lot today, but I am glad you insisted on gettin’ that fart home. You know, at least all the death and destruction wasn’t for nothin’, you know?  You miss your fart friend, huh? Well I’ve got a little surprise for you, buddy. While you were gone I found another wormhole with millions of beings just like him on the other side and they’re all coming to visit. Too late, Morty. The hole’s opening. Th-there’s a lot more where that came from too. Hey.  Hey bro. How many people was your Morty responsible for killing today?  Must be nice… Hey, Morty, there’s our Jerry. Glad you’re safe Jerry. What do you say we go home? Uh, I’m not sure. Morty. Way to go, Morty. Eh, whatever. It’s the coolest place in the world! Hahahaha, I g- I get to be in a commercial! Yeah Morty It's my favourite song Oh yeah, distress beacon!  Yeah baby! The first rule of space travel kids, is always check out distress beacons; nine out of ten times its a ship full of dead aliens and a bunch of free shit! One out of ten times its a deadly trap, but I'm ready to roll those dice! Yeah. Cha-ching. Oh yeah, if you find a room full of eggs, don't shy away from it, give one of them a shake. Those facehuggers are worth more than this ship. This will make the cops write it up as a looting by the Korblocks. I hear you man, cops are racist. Oh, hey! You're alive! Thank God. And how do you know it didn't get on the ship with you? Those two ding-dongs seem pretty calm about the whole thing. Called it. Unity!? Oh boy. Uh, these are my grandkids, Summer and Morty. Summer, Morty, this is uh, Unity. We sort of used to, uh, date. Quite an operation you got going here Une. You're a whole planet now huh? Summer, rude. Why don't you kids run off and play with Unity while Unity and I do some catching up. World peace achieved. Nice! A little weird to publish a paper about it for yourself, but hey. So what's next? Oh, goody.  I like that. Oh, that's pretty sexy. Hey listen, where can I get a drink around here? Unity, Unity, who am I talking to? I watched you assimilate a whole police station just to get your hands on the evidence locker. Hey, listen, I’ve grown too. I have! See, I’ve- I’ve reconnected with my family, right? Maybe it's part of getting old. Maybe I just miss being with... a collective. Oh yeah! Wait, wait, stop! H-Hold it! Not like this. We need a hang glider. And a crotchless Uncle Sam costume. And I want the entire field of your largest stadium covered end to end with naked redheads! And I want the stands packed with every man that remotely resembles my father! Oh yeah! I want youuuuuu! Oh my god. Oh my god.  What's this ‘was’ stuff? I just need to hydrate and then we’re doing that again! Listen, if this is an invasion I gotta sit this one out, but I'll- I'll be back to have sex with the survivors. All bad I hope.  Whoa, Jesus Christ! Oh snap! Powdered neutronium? Amphetetron? You know what I can make with this stuff? Come on, it's not every day that I'm in town! It- it's for old time's sake. Oh, I was thinking velocitinis, but... I can do whatever you do and more, baby. You know, I think Beta-7 over there is hoping your alliance can be more than practical. You got that right. But... baby, listen. Y-you're talking about taking over planets and galaxies, you gotta... you gotta just... remember to let go sometimes, you know. Whoa! Whoa! That's not what I meant!  Oh, that was awesome! My grandkids weren't in that town, right? A-are my grandkids alive? ... H-hey, my drink is empty. What the hell... is your problem? Fine, geez! See ya! Tend your garden, kids, I'm kinda doing a thing here. Oh my god  you guys I get it. You're afraid the big bad hivemind is gonna steal  your grandpa away. What? Oh, gee, boy Summer, well put. Uh, why don't we see what Unity thinks. Unity? Oh, hey, wh-what's this on the news, guys? L-l-let me turn it up. I think you two are a little outnumbered. What? Dumb. Bye. Summer's just a hyper-emotional, needy little- what's the word I'm looking for here... uh- human! It runs in the family! I can tolerate it but I can't give a crap about it. Take a hike. I'm not looking for judgement, just a yes or no. Can you assimilate a giraffe? Aaah!  Okay, okay, now make him cry. But happy cry. Now make ‘em all make fun of the blonde one. Now make ‘em all do it on the table! I can’t believe you created a whole show for me. Now cancel it! Okay, now put it back on. Haha!  Alright, I’m bored. Pfft, screw those guys! Uugh, I'll be right back. Don't waste your brain on those weirdos, Unity. They're no different from any other aimless chumps that you occupy. They just put you at the centre of their lives because you're powerful and then because they put you there they want you to be less powerful. Never gonna happen though, right? Never! Back in a flash. Best weekend ever, Rick! I agree, Rick! Let's see how long we can go! Hey Une! You got any more- Hey. Okay. No. It's your house. Who? Oh. Unity. Yeah, well, I mean honestly we’re talking about an entity that thrives on enslavement, you know. It's not cool. Fun's fun but who needs it? I'll be in the garage. Unity! Unity! Unity! I wanna talk to  Unity. Beta-7, I know it's in there! I know your game, Beta-7, I’ve met a billion of you, you little on-deck in-the-wind shoulder to cry on! Well, you're just loving this, mother f- this isn't gonna shape out like you think, pal! Unity's not into other hiveminds! It's gonna suck you in and use you up and a month from now I'm going to be making out with all of you in a bunch of red wigs! Unity! Unity! Unity, I know you can hear me! Get out here! Oh, in your dreams you have weapons systems. We are, Morty. Alright, Beta-shit-7, you just got saved by the bell, bitch! "They're no different from any of the aimless chumps that you occupy, they just put you at the center of their lives because you're powerful, then because they put you there they want you to be less powerful. Never gonna happen though, right?" Everybody, fuck off. Morty, I need your help. W-W-W-We We need to go on a quick adventure. That was before I needed something, Morty. There’s a plasma shard in the Abadango Cluster. A princess has it. If I get it, I’ll be awesome. Oh, that’s Wow, Morty. Wow. What an exciting life you lead.  Let’s go. In and out, 20 minutes adventure. Steady, Morty. Five cetons. Fire! Pull up, Morty, pull up! Pull up!  Fuck.  Oh, fuck! Fuck! Ahh! Ahh! That was seriously fucked up. We almost died. Fuck yes! That w... T-This was insane! That was pure luck. I was not in control of that situation at all.  Look at this, Morty. Look at my fucking hand. Look at this shit. I don’t know, Morty. Maybe I hate myself, maybe I think I deserve to die. I-I-I-I don’t I don’t know! We need a vacation. Isn’t that something? It's not even cruel, either. These things are just doing what they do in the wild. It loves swallowing stressed-out creatures for 20 minutes and then puking them up. Oof, this guy on commission or something?  Oh, my god. Okay, listen. W-W-W-We’ll try the machine, but but I’d like you to try something. Try swallowing the giant ball of snot that’s dangling around in the back of your throat.  It’s disgusting. Nobody wants to hear that. Ahem. Ahem! That’s what you do. Wow, did you hear me bite that guy's head off? Geez, I really need to chill. All right, mister comedy man, you don’t have to bust my balls. You’re not helping things. Hey, man, listen Those comments I made about your throat? It’s nice of you to let me off the hook. It’s still unacceptable behavior, and I do regret it. Not at all. What is that? Are you kidding? This universe.  Oh, excuse me. That is an interesting concept. You know, it makes me wonder if there’s an algorithmic expression that could achieve the ideal ratio. Pfft! Listen to me, trying to calculate happiness over here. Hey, here’s something no science could measure. I’m real proud to be your grandpa, Morty. : Hey, kids. Uh, hope I’m not interrupting. Morty, a moment of your time? I hate to bug you with this, but after our morning hike I started receiving very faint, highly unusual transmissions on my sub ether phone. Listen. Uh, I-I-I traced the source of the call back to the spa we went to, Morty. I thought I could hear a voice in there, so I enhanced it, a-and listen. Morty, what if the toxic parts of us have their own identities, their own will to live? W-What if mine shares my intelligence and devised a way to reach out to us? I don’t think I can just blow this off, Morty. If I had known it worked this way, I wouldn’t have detoxed. Well, I would have because I was toxic. Now I’m detoxed and I’m accountable to my toxins, right? I-It’s a dilemma. Morty!  Morty, great news. I went back to the spa and they let me purchase the containment unit from their detoxifier. Morty, I’m sorry. That stuff is alive and it belongs with us. We yanked them from their homes and locked them in a can.  See? They’re living in pain. Yep. Sorry, Morty. I need you to step into the booth.  Booth! Come on, Morty. Morty, do the healthy thing and voluntarily retoxify yourself.  What are you doing? No! You said we were merging. So you were just gonna trap us in that tank? T-That was your plan?  All right, you asked for it. Sorry, Summer! Okay, okay, take it easy. Don’t do it. Summer, get out of here! Go! We can resolve  our issues. We don’t need to resort to over-the-top- Aah! Okay, just Just leave her out of it. It’s okay, girls. I-I’m so sorry I put us in danger with some of my behavior. I-If you’d like I can go out in the g-garden, pick some fresh basil, and make us a nice Scallopini. Believe me, sweetie, that man’s motivations are a mystery.  Morty, I appreciate what you’re trying to do, but it’s not our place, you know, to pick and choose which world gets saved from what apocalypse. Our our toxins have as much a right to their worldview as- Morty, how is it healthy to slap me? Wait. That’s it.  How could that detox machine know the difference between healthy and sick for everything that goes through it? It can’t. It must be by the individual’s own definition of toxicity. That means...  I’ll explain on the way. Remember me? Yeah, I did. And then I learned something else.  This. That bullet is laced with an encrypted nanobotic virus that will disintegrate your Morty in about, ah, 20 minutes. I know you give a shit, dummy. Because I know I don’t. Here’s another thing I know. The decryption key that neutralizes the virus.  You want it? Come and get it. Merge with me and you’ll know how to save him. Oh, I had all my problems removed my entitlement, my narcissism, my crippling loneliness, my irrational attachments. They must be somewhere. They ain’t over here, bro. Honestly, I don’t care either way. I hate having you in me. And when I say "honestly" you can believe it, because we both know I’m too healthy to lie. Watch. Hahahahahaha. Y-You got to have a sense of humor about these things. Oh, wait, you can’t. You’re literally incapable of seeing the bigger picture. I guess it’s just funny because you’ve never done anything but complain about me being in charge, but if I ever gave you the wheel we’d be dead in five minutes. You poor, dumb, sick animal. Aaahhh! I’m back, baby!  Regular Rick! Master of both worlds! Check it it out!  Excuse me.  Now we’ll just reverse this hacky toxicity beam. Man, I really over think shit when I’m angry.  Ha! All right, Morty, now it’s time we re-merge your little ass. That kid is a real piece of shit.  Part of me wanted to, Toxic Morty. Part of me really wanted to.  Sorry, tiny American Psycho,  time to take the opposite of your medicine. Am I good or what? You lying bitch. She kept coming to our house, Morty, and kept asking me. "Did did d-did you get a new Morty yet?" I wasn’t crying! She can’t keep the drones. They turn into a little Voltron robot. They’re awesome. You can’t keep the drones.  Morty, I need your help on an adventure. Eh, "need" is a strong word. We need door stops, but a brick would work, too. Listen to your sister, Morty. To live is to risk it all. Otherwise, you're just an inert chunk of randomly assembled molecules drifting wherever the universe blows you. Oh, I'm sorry, Jerry, I didn't see you there. H-How much of that did you hear? Cool. Just stay in the driveway. The killbots are live, and I took you off the whitelist. Absolutely, Morty. A-And your mom's lawyer says if I can get enough in the settlement, he can help me sue for full custody. I did not, but if you're really that alienated, I'm as willing to exploit it as the next guy, church, army, or Olympic gymnastics trainer. Bitch, I was ready yest-- Morty, shoot the mohawk guy! High fade, chartreuse with cyan highlights, layered on top. Shoot him! Fuck! Get in the game, Morty! Holy shit, Summer for the win! Here we go. Isotope 322. Ugh. You have infinite sisters, Morty. I mean, n-not that I want to spend the rest of my day looking for another one. Sum-sum, let's go! Grandpa's concern for your safety is fleeting! Whoa. That was cool. Okay, getting darker. Aw, come on. Hands and little shoulder-mounted dudes where I can see them! Wh-Wh-What in the hell are you saying? All right, let's get sloppy. Oh, whoa. Uh, uh, what's, uh-What's that little bauble you got back there? Kids, weird pitch: let's have this be our new life. Let's be post-apocalyptic scavengers! Sounds good. Stay hydrated. Oh, get off your high horse, Professor Ski Lodge. This world may be rough around the edges, but it's got its charms. Uh...  bicep. No. Okay, I'll level with you. You see that green rock, Morty? It's about 20 pounds of the stuff I was getting all hard for a flake of. Well, having a 20-pound boulder of it is better than having a flake. I can explain the math to you later, but-- Huh, could be therapeutic for her. She has been acting pretty crazy lately, Morty. I mean, her parents are going through a divorce. No, no, no. Morty, there's too much heat on the bogey. I need you to distract the camp. Right idea, wrong genre, Morty. The equivalent here would be... Save it for the Semantics Dome, E.B. White. The important question is, who wants to take a poke at my man Spine Eater here? Morty, relax. You're gonna be a ringer. Come here. Ugh! Hey! Okay, this is exciting. We're making some discoveries about muscle memory. Just stick and moo--oove, Morty! Wear him out! All right. Good job, champ. Um, can I talk to you kids for a second over yonder? Oh, big guy, no. Nobody's leaving. Don't be stupid. We love being united. We love the radiation, the trichinosis. We're in it for life, which I assume is around 20 years, average. I just need a quick aside with my grandkids, about 40 yards from anyone else. Uh, I know why don't we all split up and look for it in groups of three? Kids? Kiss my ass, Summer! Your friends have no mercy! Listen to me! Both of you kids need to get out of this environment so we can properly deal with your parents' divorce! Alternatively, I have a freaking portal gun, and I can leave the two of you here forever! All right, you know what? Fuck it! Nope, regular blood. Hi, sweetie. Oh, th-they aren't with you? I thought they were with you. Oh, y-you know what? Uh, I just remembered. They're out doing something completely ordinary and kid-related. Don't panic. Not a mistake, no! Summer, state your deal. Morty? All right. It's dinnertime. Ah ha ha ha, yeah. Dial it back, Summer. By 15% and increase dynamic movement by 3. Am I right? Oh, sweetie, d-don't. Listen. Don't -- Well, try crying 15% less? You do?! What the fuck is wrong with you two? The point of automation is to reduce cost and labor. Tell it to my bread in the morning. You just became my backup toaster. Sorry, sorry. I-I-I can wait for this to wrap up. Don't let me distract you. I want you and your sister to come home. You don't have to kick me while I'm down, Morty. Look, there's no replacing either of you without an amount of work that would ultimately defeat the purpose. I don't know if that applies to the throats of murder victims, Morty. Well, the longer you wait, Morty, the more it's gonna feel like committing a whole murder. I think your arm just called it too early because it wasn't the arm of a paramedic. Here. The reason I wanted this is because it can do this. You don't have to ask me twice. Home is nuts right now. My daughter's going through a divorce, and I am not dealing with it in a healthy way at all. Ah, Summer's home. Uh, we should go to the garage. Come on, Morty. No union built on running from your problems lasts more than five years, seven tops. Grandpa just sped things up with a few creature comforts of modern society. Oh, no. Sum-sum, no. But you two were perfect for each other. Coolsies. Hey, yo. Sorry for acting so weird for three weeks. Ah, I'm sure it was nothing. I'm gonna go, uh, work in the garage. What, that dice game where you shake dice and yell out, "Downbeat"? No, thank you. Big day. Christian God is real, he's been asleep for thousands of years. We're gonna sneak up there and kill him. Whack his ass.  Fuck off, Summer. Job interview? Actually, yeah. Something's off. Don't hunt him to completion! Oh. Shit. Everyone start packing, no time to explain. Someone just killed a decoy family. Yes, and how interesting did you think that would stay? Decoys, Morty. Very different.  Very different, sweetie. Lotta people out there want a piece of this, sweetie. I'm cool, and it makes them feel bad. So, y'know, after that trouble with Space Beth, I made passable copies of the family and placed them around the country as a buffer zone to protect– The cryopod is what confuses you? Jerry, can't you see we've moved on to higher stakes? Ah, shit! Shut up and pack, Jerry. Squids just killed a decoy family. You think I'd lie to you about why we're on vacation, Morty? I wouldn't lie to you.  Well, that's a lie. Huh. Someone's always trying to kill us. That's what the decoys are for. They go on fun, self-contained terrestrial adventures, and– take bullets meant for us. Shit. Ah, shit. Decoy family. Hard concept, Morty. Hard concept. I've never really cracked it, if I'm being honest. Decided it was maybe better as a kind of kinetic mislead for another special episode! Woah, a time traveling wolf? Count me in. You're right. It shows a lack of faith in their core concept. I'd much rather watch When Wolf go to the 20's and invest in the stock market, but then eat people. Look, if you really want to know what happened to Beth's mom, it– whoop. Squid aliens just killed a decoy family. Clones are, like, thirty-two percent of all sci-fi, sweetie. You don't get to own clones. Yes, I made some decoys. They're exactly like us, with a few tweaks and a backdoor shutdown. Actually, I get hard protecting my family! The decoys are harmless, Beth. They wouldn't be very good decoys if they did, Sum-sum. That's the deal. Oh, god! We might not be real! We might be decoys! Morty, quick! My failsafe, Morty. My final, secret failsafe. It proves I'm real, you have to help me, I'd never joke about this.  There's a barcode, Morty. A barcode on the interior of my left ass cheek. Morty, please, I'm begging you! Please, Morty, is it there? God damn it!  Just tell me if I'm real! Summer, you fucking idiot. We're not decoys. A, decoys don't build decoys, and B, you think the mere suggestion I'm fake would break me? Christ, I'm not your mom. Jeez, these guys really wanna kill me bad. Alright, here's the plan. We're gonna hide out with a decoy family, and when these squids show up, we jump their asses. Jerry! Come on! Family emergency! Analysis mode, password 8-0-0-8-5. I didn't plan on showing them off. Yes, Morty, like Westworld. But don't fuck them.  Summer! I know about the Yosemite t-shirt, Morty. You know you can use tissues, right? I know what a fake one looks like.  What?  What? Morty, why the fuck would I do that? You think I'd go somewhere else to–  okay, well, I am now less worried about the squids.  Isolate head at normal processing.  What the fuck do you think you're doing down there? You're making decoys? Everyone in the car. And usually, they don't, but again, it's nothing to worry about, because decoys are harmless.  Just have to, y'know, visit the rest and terminate the program. And at some point, they won't be. That's how existing works. What, are you going to save every stray cat? Ugh. Look, save the empathy. It's more termite infestation than Blade Runner. Uh-oh. I don't remember making this one.  Analysis mode, 8-0-0-8-5. Nothing, buddy. You gotta stop with all that coffee, it's making you loopy! Happy analysis mode!  Analysis mode, password 8-0-0– How do you know about the decoys? Hide. Hide! He thinks he's me, and I was about to start terminating decoys. Sure, tell him that. Killer decoys! Me? You decoy piece of shit. You're the one that shot first! And once he knows he's a decoy, he know he won't be safe until he's killed the real Rick, along with anyone who think he's him. This is getting nowhere. Let's charge their asses on three. Morty, this is gonna sound bad, but...would you trust me not to kill you? Before you say anything, they were already killing each other. Not sure, actually. I've heard stories about this. We're looking at a possible Asimov Cascade. Car, can I get a whiteboard?  When squids started killing decoys, decoys started checking their decoys and learning that they're making decoys. That's making them seek out and run into other decoys, making them realize they're decoys, making them start to kill other decoys. Fuck you. Beth, the loop's already started. It's basically Highlander rules now.  Really? 1986? "There can be only one?" Shit, we gotta rent it after this. Connery plays "the spaniard" but does nothing about his accent. Might work. Alt pitch, we just terminate the rest of the decoys. Beth, as much as your passion warms my cold, cold heart, this thing feels pretty far gone. Not only are the decoys liable to be anywhere, but also, we don't know how many decoys there are. You get far enough down the decoy line and shit starts to get weird. You ever make a copy of a copy? Engage in B stories we'll have to track simultaneously? No thank you! We stick together till this is all wrapped up. Well, this'll sound weird, but I think I have a pitch for that. God, there's no pleasing you! Because we'll fit in and avoid detection as we take out all the squids. Might also help us anonymously take out excess decoys, if we have to. Sure, Beth. Try to love this more. Well, we're talking about me. It could be anything. Maybe jealous of my penis size, I had sex with their queen, my dick's too big, the list goes on and on. Alright, hey, one down! Probably, what, forty more to go? Forty-five? Should be pretty easy, unless killing them brings in a bigger bad or some kind of horrible mothership. Okay, let's loot their ship, find their weaknesses, be done by sundown. Huh. Honestly, probably for the best.  Man, I'm good. Oh, shit. One of mine. Off grid, Morty. We're gonna live in the woods, like libertarians. We'll hunt rabbits and trade with, like, little pieces of gold bar that we cut off with a knife. We might be decoys, Summer. Everything about this licks. Wait, shhh. It's too quiet. I didn't skip shit. It's obviously quiet if it's too quiet. You know what, Summer, now it's not quiet enough! Kill me... if I ever get this arch. This guy's really into skin. Sooner or later. Can't really run from it. Any place we'd think to hide is a place they'd think to look. It's Rule 34 of an Asimov Cascade. Jerry? Bucket list? Nope! Morty? Shit. Sorry, buddy. Sounds like it would've been real heartwarming. You're so mean today! I'm your dad, you like having me around! Whatever. This'll take forever, mind if I do something drastic? House, I need something quick. Can you whip up a Star Fox boss season four callback? Make it flashy?  Let's go, you little bitch.  It's showtime.  Get centered. What up, you decoy motherfuckers? Come on down to Rick's house of squids, where I'm serving your ass on a platter!  I know what you're thinking: "Fuck, a beacon! That's a great idea! He's got home turf,  a tacit psychological advantage, and absolutely pendulous balls!"  And now you're thinking "shit, that's totally what the rick-est Rick would do! I might actually be fake!  I pretended I didn't care if I was, but I totally did! Now the only way to prove I'm real and not him is to ice his expository ass."  Yup. So let's do it. Come get some. What? No, Morty, I'm gonna loop it. Why is it– Little out of character to say this right now, but you guys look really cool. One way to find out. Fuck you, I'm real! I'm the smartest man in the universe! Fuck you. Pretty cool adventure, huh? Big, long road trip adventure through space? Even ran into Space Beth. Maybe that'll happen more often! Oh, shit. Looks like someone killed the decoy family.